https://www.stechies.com/aspnet-interview-questions/

.NET Developer Interview Questions

https://medium.com/@adarshrai3011/53-javascript-frontend-interview-questions-e6013116eaa0
https://medium.com/artificial-corner/youre-using-chatgpt-wrong-here-s-how-to-be-ahead-of-99-of-chatgpt-users-886a50dabc54
Explanation: This is an example of a technical question. During an interview as a .NET developer, you can anticipate that the majority of questions will be technical in nature. The best way to answer technical questions is directly and concisely with little embellishment.

Question: Can you explain what a .NET web service is?
Example: “Web services are components that can be reused and enable developers to publish the application’s functions on the internet. 
This makes the application accessible and able to interact with other applications online. 
Web services are written in standard protocols, including HTTP, XML, and others. This enables them to connect across platforms and programming languages.”

Question: How do the terms class and object relate to each other, and what is the difference between them?
Example: “A class is a building block or template which defines the attributes of an object, Its behavior, and the data contained in it. 
An object is a single instance of a class that has individual identities, behaviors, and attributes. These two terms relate to each other because a class defines the states and properties that are common to a wide range of objects.”

Question: How does managed code differ from unmanaged code?
Example: "Managed code is programming which runs and the common language runtime (CLR) which is a critical part of the .NET environment. 
Unmanaged code is code written in other languages and only runs on the platforms for which it is written. 
While these two are interoperable, managed code is platform independent and also takes advantage of the functionality COR provides within the .NET framework.”

Question: Can you explain inheritance and how it functions in a .NET environment?
Explanation: This is yet another technical question. As the interview progresses, the technical questions will become more specific and more difficult. 
This indicates the interviewer is gaining confidence in your capabilities and is willing to explore more sophisticated areas. 
Continue to respond to these questions in the same manner you have been.
Example: “Inheritance means a class is based on another class and is considered any child of the parent class. 
The child has the same attributes as the parent class. An example of this is that a parent class would be named dwelling while the child class may be called home, 
apartment, or condominium. All three of these will have the same attributes as the parent class dwelling. The children can only be associated with one parent.”

Question: How does an abstract class and an interface differ from each other?
Explanation: The interviewer is continuing to explore your understanding of .NET programming and the terms and concepts associated with it. 
The best way to prepare for this type of interview is to review the terminology, concepts, and practices common to a .NET developer. It’s also advisable to practice these questions while providing your answers out loud to build your confidence and the muscle memory associated with interviewing.

Example: “An abstract class is a base class. It provides virtual members the other entities they must use and a framework for the implementation of a functionality.
While developers can declare fields from an abstract class, they cannot create objects from it.
An interface can declare properties, methods, and events. It designates behaviors that implementing classes need to have.”

Question: Can you define delegate as it relates to .NET?
Explanation: While the term delegate can have many meanings, the interviewer is asking you to define it within the framework of .NET. 
This is an example of needing to carefully listen to the questions the interviewer is asking to provide the answers they are seeking. 
It demonstrates the need for active listening so you understand the question and can address it appropriately.
Example: “A delegate is a type that contains a reference to a method. Delegates can reference either single or multiple methods. 
It allows objects to be passed to code when the code calls for the method. T
The advantage of a delegate is that it doesn’t require the developer to know which method is being used when the code is compiled.”

Question: Please explain the differences between a queue and a stack.
Explanation: Again, you are being asked to compare two terms used by .NET developers. As a reminder, first define the terms and then describe the differences 
or similarities between them.
Example: “A queue and a stack are both collections. A stack keeps track of what is executing and contains stored value types.
The value types are processed in a last-in, first-out order. A queue, on the other hand, processes value types on a first-in, first-out basis.”

Question: When is it common to use .NET web forms over ASP.NET MVC?

Explanation: By asking this question, the interviewer is trying to determine your familiarity with two different types of programming methodologies. 
The first is a legacy methodology and more common in the .NET framework. The others are newer methodologies that provide more functionality. 
Both are valid, so by expressing a preference, you are indicating which of them you typically use.

Example: “Historically, the .NET framework has been based on web forms which create web services using Microsoft’s visual studio tools. 
Throughout my career, I employed web forms for the majority of my programming.
ASP.NET MVC is a newer development methodology known as model view controller. 
Its advantage is that it allows applications to be divided into discrete components, making them easier to test during development.” 

Question: Define JSON data, and describe how .NET developers can work with it?
Example: “JavaScript Object Notation, or JSON, enables developers to organize and store data, making it easy to access. 
The advantage of this is that it allows developers to manipulate feeds from other sites and use them for their code. 
Other uses for JSON are defining classes that parse objects and serializing value types.”

Question: Can you name three common acronyms that are used in .NET and what each one of them stands for?

Explanation: This is an odd question because it allows you the flexibility to identify several terms you use while developing code in a .NET environment. 
An interviewer may ask this type of question just to see where you go with this and the acronyms you identify. 
It provides them with an example of how you can think on your feet as well as your knowledge of specific areas within .NET.

Example: “Wow, this is a pretty wide open question. I guess I’d start with JIT which stands for just in time compiler. The compiler uses the target machine CPU to perform a .NET operation. 
Another common term is OOP which stands for object-oriented programming. A third term is CLI or common intermediate language. 
This is a compiled code library originally developed by Microsoft. I use that for security, versioning, and deployment.”

Additional .NET Developer Interview Questions
What is session management?

Can you write a code to divide two numbers without using a division or modulus operator?
using System;
class Program
{
    static int Divide(int dividend, int divisor)
    {
        if (divisor == 0)
        {
            throw new DivideByZeroException();
        }

        int quotient = 0;
        int sign = ((dividend < 0) ^ (divisor < 0)) ? -1 : 1;

        long longDividend = Math.Abs((long)dividend);
        long longDivisor = Math.Abs((long)divisor);

        while (longDividend >= longDivisor)
        {
            longDividend -= longDivisor;
            quotient++;
        }
        return sign * quotient;
    }

    static void Main()
    {
        int dividend = 10;
        int divisor = 3;
        Console.WriteLine(Divide(dividend, divisor));  // Output: 3

        dividend = 7;
        divisor = -3;
        Console.WriteLine(Divide(dividend, divisor));  // Output: -2
    }
}

What is the difference between a full outer join and inner join?

Have you ever missed a deadline? If so, how was it handled?
Communication: Communicate early and honestly with stakeholders about the delay. Explain the reasons behind the delay and provide a realistic timeline for completion.
Reassessment: Review the project plan and tasks to identify the reasons for the delay. Determine if additional resources, changes in approach, or reprioritization of tasks are needed.
Adjustment: Modify the project plan, timeline, or scope as necessary to accommodate the delay. Prioritize tasks based on criticality and impact.
Mitigation: Implement strategies to mitigate the impact of the delay, such as working overtime, reallocating resources, or simplifying features.
Continuous Improvement: After the project is completed, conduct a post-mortem to analyze the causes of the delay and identify areas for improvement in future projects.
Documentation: Keep detailed records of the delay, including the reasons, actions taken, and outcomes. Use this information to improve project planning and estimation in the future.

What was the most difficult script you ever wrote? How long did it take to write it?

 Interviewer : What is .NET framework ?

You : It is collection of many small technologies integrated as a single large technology such that very powerful applications can be developed.
Interviewer : What are the .NET components and explain in detail ?

You :

CLR:Common Language Runtime,

CLR plays a main role in the .NET framework, It is a runtime environment in the .NET framework
When .NET program is compiled , the output of the compiler is not executable file but a file that contains a special type of code called MSIL ( Microsoft Intermediate Language) also called as Common Intermediate Language (CIL)
The Job of CLR is to convert IL file to executable code i.e native OS understandable format

CLR is responsible for managing the compile codes of .NET application , Memory management , type checking

These tasks can be done by using

CTS
CLS
JIT
Garbage Collector
CTS: It is a collection of type definition provided by the .NET framework which has to be supported by all the languages which targets the .NET technology
To understand CTS , we have so many languages each and every language has some different syntax for the same data type.
For e.g C# we declared int in Vb.net we declared as Integer but CLR having its own data type int32 when compiling respective languages they should convert into int32 which is understandable by CLR for all the languages
CLS:It is a subset of CTS , Common Language Specification It iis a set of rules which has been provided by the .NET framework that has to supported by the all the languages.
Every language has its own syntax, one language syntax can’t understand the other language . CLR has its own Intermediate Language which can understand all languages syntax.

JIT:
It will convert the MSIL file to OS understandable native code , It also stores the resulting and it is accessible for the subsequent calls.


Pre- JIT : In Pre-JIT complete source code is converted into native code in a single cycle , this is done at the time of application deployment (Ngen.exe)


Econo-JIT: It compiles only those methods are called at the runtime , after execution of this method the compiled methods are removed from the memory


Normal-JIT: It compiles only those methods are called at run time, after execution this method, compiled methods are stored in the memory cache . Now further call to compiled methods should be execute from the memory cache.GC make a trip to the heap and collects all the objects that are no longer used by the application and then makes them free memory


Garbage Collection:
Garbage Collector manages allocation and reclaiming of memory.
Heap is managed by different generations, it stores and handles long-lived and short lived objects

Generation 0 - When an object is initialized, its in generation 0. These are new objects

Generation 1 - The objects that survive the garbage collection process are considered to be in generation 1. These are the old objects.

Generation 2 - As more new objects get created and added to the memory, the new objects are added to generation 0, the generation 1 old objects become older, and so are considered to be in generation 2. Generation 2 is the highest level generation in the garbage collection process. Any further garbage collection process occuring causes the level 1 objects promoted to level 2, and the level 2 objects stay in level 2 itself, as this generation level is the highest level.
So what is the importance & use of the generations process? Its actually the priority the GC gives to objects while freeing objects from the heap. During every GC cycle, the objects in the Generation 0 are scanned first -> Followed by Generation 1 and then 2. This is because the generation 0 objects are usually short term objects, that need to be freed. The newer an object, the shorter its life is. The older an object, longer its life is.
This process also helps in categorizing the memory heap as to where the de-allocation needs to be done first and where next.

When GC triggered
There are no specific timings for GC to get triggered , GC automatically starts operations
1.When virtually memory running out of space
2. When we call GC.Collect() method explicitly , as GC runs continuously , we actually do not need to call this method.

Clean up unmanaged resources

There are two different ways to clean up unmanaged resources
Implementing IDisposable interface and Dispose method
Using block is also used to clean unmanaged resources

