//wap for  palindrome,wap to short no given by user and odd no should be ascending order and prime no should be desc order

As far as my education is concerned 
I have completed my mca with specialization software application development.
That's all about nme. Thank you
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/365489/questions-every-good-net-developer-should-be-able-to-answer
https://interviewprep.org/net-core-interview-questions/
https://medium.com/@meghnav274/simple-jwt-authentication-using-asp-net-core-api-5d04b496d27b
http://www.voidgeeks.com/tutorial/CRUD-Operation-in-ASPNET-Core-MVC-Using-Visual-Studio-and-ADONET/7
https://www.qfles.com/interview-question/c-sharp-interview-questions
https://www.vskills.in/interview-questions/asp-dotnet-core-interview-questions
https://mycodeblock.com/top-20-net-core-interview-questions/

https://www.dotnetinterviewquestions.in/
https://www.scribd.com/document/548589021/Net-Core-Interview-Questions
https://www.reddit.com/r/dotnet/comments/v14mgt/im_compiling_a_list_of_questions_in_preparation/?rdt=40762
https://www.talkingdotnet.com/asp-net-core-interview-questions/
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/top-20-aspnet-core-interview-questions-answers-2020-dot-net-tricks-

https://www.codingninjas.com/studio/library/interview-questions-for-net-core

https://www.ambitionbox.com/profiles/dot-net-core-developer/interview-questions

https://www.interviewbit.com/dot-net-interview-questions/

https://www.dotnettricks.com/learn/aspnetcore/top-20-asp-net-core-interview-questions-and-answers

https://anywhere.epam.com/en/blog/advanced-asp-net-core-interview-questions-answers

https://www.hackertrail.com/talent/backend/net-core-interview-questions-answers/

https://medium.com/javarevisited/10-rest-api-basic-interview-questions-8f294afb0f46

https://medium.com/@techworldwithmilan/net-developer-roadmap-2023-c1a9a102748e

https://minafrzli.medium.com/net-developer-interview-questions-6ee3b388c069

https://medium.com/@andytechdev/6-asp-net-core-open-source-projects-to-boost-your-practical-skills-a34807adaf93

How do you handle exceptions globally in an ASP.NET Core Web API project?
Answer
Global exception handling in ASP.NET Core can be achieved using middleware. The ideal place to handle exceptions is in the middleware pipeline so that it is separate from your application logic, and can trap any unhandled exceptions.

One of the most effective ways is to use the built-in UseExceptionHandler middleware which captures synchronous and asynchronous exceptions. With this middleware, you can redirect to an error handling route or render an error response directly.

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/api/Error");
    }

    //... rest of the middleware
}
In the above code, when an exception is raised it is handled by the “/api/Error” route.

Another method of handling global exceptions is using UseDeveloperExceptionPage middleware which provides detailed exception information in the local development environment.


How to do database migrations in Entity Framework Core?
Answer
Entity Framework Core (EF Core) includes a feature called Migrations that allows you to make changes to your model and then propagate those changes to your database schema. Here’s a basic overview of performing a migration:

1. Install the necessary packages: EF Core requires certain NuGet packages to perform migrations. Make sure you have the basic Entity Framework Core and EF Core tools packages installed in your project.

2. Create a new Migration: Use the Add-Migration command and provide a name for your migration. This creates a new class in your Migrations folder that contains the changes to be made to the database schema.

Add-Migration MyFirstMigration
3. Update the database: Use the Update-Database command. This applies any pending migrations on the database. EF Core creates the database if it does not exist.

Update-Database
You may opt to provide a specific migration name if you want to update the database to a specific migration rather than the latest.

Remember to treat migrations as a part of your codebase. They need to be kept under source control and applied as part of your deployment process. Well-managed migrations are key to dealing with evolving database schemas.

How is routing implemented in ASP.NET Core MVC compared to ASP.NET MVC?
Answer
There are several differences in how routing is handled in ASP.NET Core MVC compared to ASP.NET MVC.

In ASP.NET MVC, routing was handled through a central RouteConfig file that includes rules for each controller and action method. These routing rules can be either attribute-based or convention-based.
On the other hand, ASP.NET Core MVC uses middleware for routing. It provides two types of routing methodologies – convention-based routing and attribute routing. All the routing information is configured in the Startup.cs file.
In ASP.NET Core MVC, we also have a new feature, Routing to Razor Pages. Razor Pages are a new aspect of ASP.NET Core MVC that allow you to create page-based programming model.
Additionally, ASP.NET Core MVC supports route constraints, which weren’t available in ASP.NET MVC. Route constraints let you restrict how the parameters in the route template are matched.
What are some of the best techniques for optimizing performance in .NET Core applications?
Answer
Optimizing performance in .NET Core applications could involve several techniques:

Caching: It’s about storing data somewhere for future use to speed up the application. .NET Core provides support for several different types of caching including in-memory caching, distributed caching, and response caching.
Asynchronous Programming: Use the async and await keywords to write asynchronous code that’s easier to read, write and manage.
Pooling: Techniques such as Object Pooling or Connection Pooling can be used to recycle objects or connections instead of creating and destroying them frequently.
Optimization of Data Access: Minimize the amount of data that you send over the network and reduce the number of server round trips.
Use of Middleware: Middleware components are used to handle requests and responses. Ensure that unnecessary middleware components are not registered.

Can you explain some possible strategies for managing session state in a distributed .NET Core application?
Answer
Managing session state in a distributed .NET Core application generally involves either a server-side or client-side session management approach.

Server-side session management: It store session data on the server. This strategy involves storing the session state in a database or in-memory data store like Redis. This allows applications running on multiple servers to have access to the shared session data.
Client-side session management: In this strategy, the session state is stored in a client side, usually in cookies or in local storage. This strategy eliminates the need to store session data on the server, which can be especially useful in applications with a large number of users.
Distributed Cache Session Management: ASP.NET Core provides IDistributedCache interface that you can use to store your session state.
Remember to always secure session data, especially when incorporating client-side session management strategies.


3. How do you explain what a service lifetime is?
An interviewer might ask this question to see if you understand the various lifetimes of registered services in .NET Core frameworks. A sound answer outlines the three different service lifetimes with specific explanations of each.

Example: "A service lifetime refers to how long an object lives after being created. The three typical lifetimes are transient, scoped and singleton. Transient lifetimes are ideal for stateless and lightweight services because they get created each time the service container gets used. Scoped lifetimes happen once every connection. Singleton lifetimes happen when initially created and again with each subsequent request from the service container."

6. Share a time you prioritised an IT task over something else and why.
Behavioral questions can help interviewers understand how you might react during a specific situation. Questions like this often give insight into your problem-solving abilities, time management skills and creative thinking. Consider giving an answer that involved a challenging deadline, positive results or potentially unpopular decision to help show how you manage stressful situations.

Example: "My team worked on an application and had a presentation to senior executives. Marketing colleagues wanted updated statistics and project reports from our department, but a team member told me about a system bug during testing runs that affected the show-and-tell portion of the presentation. Though the deadline to share materials with the marketing team drew near, I communicated our troubleshooting took priority and pushed the submission deadline. We addressed the glitch the same day and sent our updated report the next morning. The marketing team appreciated my honesty and ultimately included the updated fix in their presentation to leaders."

7. What are some challenges you face while working with .NET Core?
A question about challenges can show an interviewer how you handle work situations, along with giving insight into your analytical and critical thinking skills. Try focusing your answer on specific situations from your past work experience or projects and describe how you overcame the challenges to best display your tenacity and ability to move past obstacles. Consider using the STAR method of providing answers to situational questions.

Example: "When I first became familiar with .NET Core, I often experienced server overloads and database issues when developing an application for my primary client. I noticed the landing pages worked, though they performed slowly with a lag time that might deter users. I connected with database administrators to monitor settings that allowed us to gain better performance while we further developed the app."

Read more: How To Use the STAR Interview Response Technique

8. What is an action method?
Interviewers often seek to know you have a broad depth and understanding of industry terms, processes and practices. This question can help show your specific knowledge of IT concepts. Consider providing a concise answer that confidently addresses the question.

Example: "An action method executes activity when an HTTP request takes place. It is a controller class that has specific parameters. For example, action method must be public, rather than protected or private. It cannot get overloaded and it cannot be a static method."

9. How would you describe what a cookie is to someone not technologically savvy?
This question can showcase your ability to explain complex processes in simple ways. Because communication is an essential skill in nearly every industry, an interviewer might glean insight into your oral and written communication skills. Consider using straightforward descriptions that someone outside of the IT industry can understand when forming your answer.

Example: "A cookie is a small amount of data stored on your computer, mobile or other devices when you access a website. When you go back to the website again, it knows you have visited before. Cookies allow companies to tailor a website, promotion or offer to you specifically because they already know a bit about you as a consumer. Nearly all sites use cookies and they are relatively safe from viruses and malware."

10. What are caching and response caching in .NET Core?
An interviewer might ask this question to establish your awareness between various caching types and other software development aspects. Technical questions often require a precise response, so consider reviewing primary concepts used in the IT industry and .NET Core specifically to best be prepared.

Example: "Caching is a process that reduces the number of calls to the data source, improving the application's performance and scalability. It essentially stores a copy of the data instead of generating it each time you access the original source. For example, if you visit a specific website or app frequently, some data already on your device let the page run faster, giving you a better user experience. For data that frequently changes, response caching sets parameters for the headers that control caching."

Other .NET Core questions asked in a job interview
Here are 20 other examples of .NET Core questions you might get asked in an interview:

"Can you describe the dependency injection and what problem it solves?"
"How do you explain session and state management in .NET Core?"
"What does change token mean?"
"Please outline the role of startup class."
"Describe your level of software development proficiency, especially for .NET Core."
"What is the difference between generic host and web host?"
"Can you explain model validation in one sentence**?"
"How would you explain in-memory cache and distributed caching to someone not familiar with the terms?"
"What steps would you take to enable cross-origin requests and prevent cross-site scripting?"
"Please explain the concept of middleware."
"How are models, viewers and controllers used?"
"What is area in relation to .NET and how would you describe it?"
"What is the role of configure services and the configure method?"
"How do you identify and handle errors in .NET Core?"
"Can you run .NET Core applications in docker containers?"
"What is attribute routing?"
"Explain how attribute-based routing works."
"What are caching and response caching?"
"How does configuration work in .NET?"
"What is the difference between a Kestrel and an Internet Information Service (IIS)?"

https://in.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/adonet-interview-questions

14. How can you improve Stored Procedure Performance?

You should focus on certain points for your Stored Procedure performance as below.

Use Proper indexing on tables.
Set NOCount ON|OFF - it will control some messages like - after running some update query you see messages - '0 rows affected'.
Use Select count(1) instead of count(*) for count function.
do not use prefix 'SP' while creating stored procedures as default system stored procedures also starts with prefix 'SP'.
Whenever it's required fetch data from the table with 'NOLOCK' keyword WITH(NOLOCK).
Set ANSI_Nulls ON|OFF- When it's ON it means a select statement will return zero results even if there are null values in the column. When It's OFF means select statement will return the corresponding rows with null values in columns. When you are setting it OFF means comparison operators do not follow ISO standards.
Set Quoted_Identifier ON|OFF - When it's ON means identifiers are delimited by double quotes and literals are delimited by single quotes. But when it's OFF means identifiers can not be delimited by quotation.

what is a temporary view in sql
A temporary view in SQL is a virtual table that is based on the results of a SQL query or a DataFrame. Temporary views are not stored in the catalog and are only visible to the current session. They are automatically dropped when the session ends or when you explicitly drop them using DROP VIEW


The Global.asax file in ASP.NET is an optional file that provides a way to handle global application-level events and settings. It serves as the entry point and central configuration file for an ASP.NET application.

he Global.asax file in ASP.NET allows you to handle application-level events, implement error handling, manage sessions, define URL routing rules, and set global configuration settings. It provides a central place to handle various aspects of your application's behavior and lifecycle.

What is the ASP.NET page life cycle and why is it important?
The ASP.NET page life cycle refers to the sequence of events that occur during the processing of a web page in an ASP.NET application. It starts when a user requests a page and ends when the page is fully rendered and sent back to the client.

The ASP.NET page life cycle consists of several stages, each representing a specific phase of the page processing. Here are the main stages:

Page Request: The web server receives a request for a page.
Start: The page's initialization occurs, including loading the page's controls and their properties.
Page Load: The page's controls are populated with data, and the page's logic is executed.
Validation: The user input is validated, and any validation errors are collected.
Postback Event Handling: If there is a postback event, like a button click, the corresponding event handler is executed
PreRender: The page prepares for rendering, and the state of the controls is finalized.
Render: The HTML markup for the page is generated.
Unload: The page is unloaded, and resources are released.
Understanding the ASP.NET page life cycle is important for several reasons:

Control and Manipulation: By understanding each stage of the life cycle, developers can control and manipulate the behavior and appearance of the page at specific points. This allows them to customize the page's behavior based on the current state.
State Management: The life cycle helps manage the state of controls and their values across postbacks. It ensures that user input and control values are properly persisted and restored during subsequent requests.
Event Handling: The life cycle provides a clear structure for handling events raised by controls on the page. Developers can write code to respond to specific events at the appropriate stage of the life cycle.
Performance Optimization: Knowledge of the life cycle can help optimize the performance of ASP.NET applications. Developers can take advantage of the life cycle stages to perform resource-intensive operations at the appropriate time and avoid unnecessary processing.
Overall, understanding the ASP.NET page life cycle is crucial for building robust and efficient web applications with ASP.NET. It allows developers to control the flow of execution, handle events, manage state, and optimize performance effectively.

what is a query string in asp.net
A query string in ASP.NET is a technique for sending data from one webform to another through the URL. It is a method for storing state information on the client end. 
A query string is made up of two parts: field and value. Each pair is separated by an ampersand (&). The question mark (?) in a query string indicates the beginning of a query string and its value. 

Object pooling is a design pattern that keeps a group of objects in memory for reuse. 
Reduces resource overhead
Object pooling is useful when multiple instances of a class are needed, but the class is expensive to create or manage.
Improves performance
Object pooling can improve the performance of memory-intensive applications by reducing the overhead of initialization, allocation, and disposal of objects.
Reduces processing power
Object pooling can optimize performance by reducing the processing power required of the CPU to run repetitive create and destroy calls.

Connection pooling allows you to reuse connections rather than create a new one every time the ADO.NET data provider needs to establish a connection to the underlying database. Connection pooling behavior can be controlled by using connection string options
Connection pooling is simple to implement, but it makes a huge difference in performance when more users are logged in. By default, a connection string is enabled with connection pooling. By default, the maximum number of pools is 100, minimum is 0


App. config file is used to set configuration parameters externally for desktop / stand-alone applications. Web. config file is used to set configuration parameters externally for web applications.
App.config and web.config are configuration files that set configuration parameters externally for applications. The choice of configuration file name depends on the hosting environment. 
Here are some differences between app.config and web.config: 
Usage: App.config is used for Windows Forms, Windows Services, Console Apps, and WPF applications. Web.config is used for asp.net web projects and web services.
Hosting environment: If you're using IIS to host your service, use a Web.config file. If you're using any other hosting environment, use an App.config file.
Location: Web.config files are located in the application's root directory.

What is user controls?
A user control is a collection of Windows Forms controls encapsulated in a common container. This kind of control is referred to as a composite control. The contained controls are called constituent controls. User controls derive from the UserControl class. User controls are designed like Forms, with a visual designer.

Partial view in ASP.NET MVC is a special view that renders a portion of view content. It is just like a user control of a web form application.


garbage collector manages the allocation and release of memory for your application.


What is MIME explain?
What is MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)?
MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) is an extension of the original Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) email protocol. It lets users exchange different kinds of data files, including audio, video, images and application programs, over email.


How do I secure my Web REST API?
How do you secure REST API from malicious attacks and data...
Use HTTPS.
Implement authentication and authorization.
Validate and sanitize inputs and outputs.
Apply rate limiting and throttling.
Encrypt and backup your data.
Monitor and audit your API.
Here's what else to consider.

C# Jagged Arrays

Javatpoint
https://www.javatpoint.com › c-sharp-jagged-array
In C#, jagged array is also known as "array of arrays" because its elements are arrays. The element size of jagged array can be different.


Both these methods are used to convert a value to a string. The difference is Convert. ToString() method handles null whereas the ToString() doesn't handle null in C#.

A hashtable stores key-value pairs. It retrieves the values by comparing the hash value of the keys.



SELECT MAX(SALARY) FROM Employee WHERE SALARY < (SELECT MAX(SALARY) FROM Employee);


duplicate record
SELECT OrderID, COUNT(OrderID)
FROM Orders
GROUP BY OrderID
HAVING COUNT(OrderID) > 1

By using the DISTINCT keyword, the GROUP BY clause, and the INNER JOIN statement, we can remove duplicates from a table in SQL.


What is the use of case when in SQL?
The SQL CASE Expression

The CASE expression goes through conditions and returns a value when the first condition is met (like an if-then-else statement). So, once a condition is true, it will stop reading and return the result. If no conditions are true, it returns the value in the ELSE clause.

The SQL CASE Expression
The CASE expression goes through conditions and returns a value when the first condition is met (like an if-then-else statement). So, once a condition is true, it will stop reading and return the result. If no conditions are true, it returns the value in the ELSE clause.

If there is no ELSE part and no conditions are true, it returns NULL.

CASE Syntax
CASE
    WHEN condition1 THEN result1
    WHEN condition2 THEN result2
    WHEN conditionN THEN resultN
    ELSE result
END;

SELECT OrderID, Quantity,
CASE
    WHEN Quantity > 30 THEN 'The quantity is greater than 30'
    WHEN Quantity = 30 THEN 'The quantity is 30'
    ELSE 'The quantity is under 30'
END AS QuantityText
FROM OrderDetails;


	VARCHAR	NVARCHAR
Character Data Type	Variable-length, non-Unicode characters	Variable-length, both Unicode and non-Unicode characters such as Japanese, Korean, and Chinese.
Maximum Length	Up to 8,000 characters	Up to 4,000 characters
Character Size	Takes up 1 byte per character	Takes up 2 bytes per Unicode/Non-Unicode character
Storage Size	Actual Length (in bytes)	2 times Actual Length (in bytes)
Usage	Used when data length is variable or variable length columns and if actual data is always way less than capacity	Due to storage only, used only if you need Unicode support such as the Japanese Kanji or Korean Hangul characters.


Tell me about yourself.
I answered — I am Rohit Sharma working in XXXXXX having 3 years of experience and well versed with Microsoft Technologies. I have worked upon the .Net, C#, Ajax, Javascript, Jquery, and SQL Server.

Then he directly jumped to the technical questions.

2. What is Static Class and Can we have the non-static members inside static class ?

I answered — A static class is a class that cannot be instantiated. You can‘t create an object for the static class. In static class static constructor will be called whenever we try to call the method of the static class and it will be called only once.

For e.g. in the below code only staticcheck.a = 1 will call the constructor. Next ling staticcheck.a=2 will not call the contstructor. So, “Hello” will be printed once.


And, We can’t create non static members inside static class. It will give the compile time error. Please see the below image for the error.


3. What is Interface ? When we should go for Interface and when we should go for Abstract Class ?

I answered — Interface is like a contract which means it tell what we have to implement inside the class where we are going to use it.

The only thing it contains are declarations of events, indexers, methods and/or properties.

For e.g. In the below code we have created one interface and it is being inherited by the class interfacecheck. Since, the class is inheriting the interface it has to implement the infeface members in the below example i.e. method.


When we should go for interface or abstract class?

I answered — If we know the implementation will remain same so we can put it inside the abstract class but when we know the implemntation will vary from class to class then we should go for interface. For e.g. In banks the interest rate is different from bank to bank so we should go for interface in that scenraio. ( He seems to be happy with the answer so far;P)

4. What is SOLID principle ?

I answered —

S: Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)

O: Open closed Principle (OSP)

L: Liskov substitution Principle (LSP)

I: Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)

D: Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

( Interviewer was not interested to go into details so just with the names he was happy. But if you want to know in details you can refer here)

5. What is page life cycle in ASP.Net ?

I answered —

It consist of these phases (SILVER)

S — Start
I — Initialize
L — Load
V — Validate
E — Event Handling
R — Render
Start — This is where page properties such as Request, Response, IsPostBack and UICulture are set.
Initialize — In this phase we can access the masterpage and themes. Also, in this phase a Unique ID is set to each control.
Load — In this phase we can set properties for all of the server controls
Validate— In this phase you can check the IsValid property of the controls.
Event Handling — In this events such as Click, IndexChange are applied to controls.
Render — In this page calls Render method for each control and output is finally rendered on the screen.
6. What is the difference between function and Stored procedure ?

( In 90% of SSE interview you will come across this question. So, I was prepared for it.)
I answered —

SP — Stored Procedure can return zero, single or multiple values.

F — Function must return a single value (which may be a scalar or a table).

SP — Stored Procedure can use transaction.

F — Function can’t use transaction.

SP — Stored Procedure can have input/output parameter.

F — Function have only input parameter.

SP — We can call function from Stored Procedure.

F — We can’t call SP from function.

SP — We can’t use SP in SELECT/ WHERE/ HAVING statement.

F — We can use Function in SELECT/ WHERE/ HAVING statement.

7. What is Singleton ?

I answered — It is one of most common design pattern in which we ensure class has only one instance and provides a global point of access to it.

Simple implentation


This implementation is not thread safe ( to know about thread safe read here. ) but again he was ok with this code.

He asked me where I have used it. So, I mentioned I am logging the data into a “.txt” file using Singleton Design Pattern.

8. He also asked me — Have you worked with WCF ?

I politely said No as I have no experience in it.

What is an Object in OOPs?
Objects are runtime entities that have certain properties.

Take, for illustration, a bouquet of Lillies, Roses, and Tulips. Every flower has its unique qualities, such as various shapes, colours, and scents. This is just a collection of objects.

What is a Class in OOPS?
A class is a type of object that governs how it will act and what it will include. In other words, it’s a blueprint or instructions for constructing a specific thing.

Let’s use the same example as before: a bouquet. The class is a bouquet, and the objects are the various varieties of flowers that make up the bouquet. As a result, we can define objects as instances of a class.

What are the four basic principles of OOPs?
The idea of real-world entities as objects is central to object-oriented programming. It binds data to the functions that operate on it, preventing any other section of the code from accessing the data except that function.

Basic Principles of OOPs
OOPs are based on four major principles:

Data encapsulation: This is when data and methods are combined into a single unit called a class. Data encapsulation supports the camouflage and/or coverup of data or info from the outside world or entity.
Data abstraction: Data abstraction is the representation of important properties without their background details.
Inheritance: Inheritance is the process of transferring existing class properties to a new class. The existing class (parent class) is referred to as the base class, while the new derived class is referred to as the subclass (child class). It is beneficial to code reusability.
Polymorphism: Polymorphism states an object’s ability to take on several forms. Method overloading is used to provide compile-time polymorphism in Java, whereas method overriding is used to accomplish run-time polymorphism.
Can we implement multiple inheritances in Java?
Java does not explicitly support multiple inheritances. With the use of an interface, we may achieve multiple inheritances. Multiple interfaces can be incorporated into our program.

How is method overloading different from method overriding?
Method overloading occurs when two methods have the same name but differ in the number of parameters or the type of arguments they accept. Compile-time polymorphism is what it’s called because it happens during the compilation process.

Method overriding refers to the ability to construct subclass and super-class methods with the same name and signatures, with the subclass method taking precedence over the super-class method. Run-time polymorphism is a type of polymorphism that occurs during the execution of a program.

What is a Constructor?
A constructor is a class’s special member function that is called automatically whenever a new instance of the class is created. It has a similar name as the class it goes to.

You get bonus points if you know this. If a programmer does not explicitly define a constructor in the code, the compiler creates one for them automatically. When a programmer constructs a function constructor, whether parameterized or non-parameterized, the compiler does not produce the default constructor.

What do you mean by access specifiers?
Outside of the class, access specifiers are used to define how members (functions and variables) can be accessed. There are 3types of access specifiers: public, private, and protected.

private: Members who are defined as private are only available within the same class and cannot be accessed outside of that class.
public: Members who have declared themselves to be public can be accessed from anywhere.
protected: Members who have been designated as protected cannot be accessible from outside the class unless they are members of a child class. In the context of inheritance, this access specifier is important.
Explain pointers in C++
A pointer is a variable that carries the address of another variable of the same data type. Pointers may be constructed for any data type and user-defined data types such as class, structure, etc. It enables variable passing through address references. For illustration:

int x = 25;
int *ptr = &x;
cout << ptr;

ptr will hold the address of x here. For example, the ptr value is the address of x.
We may get the value stored in the address addressed by ptr by using *ptr (i.e., 25). The *ptr operator is also known as the dereference operator.
Pointers have the following applications:

To point to a variable stored in memory.
Keeping track of the addresses of dynamically allocated memory chunks.
Give examples of data structures in C++.
There are 2 types of data structures in C++; they are as follows: linear and nonlinear.

Linear – data elements are stored in sequence or arrangements. Instance, stack, queue, and linked list.
Non-linear – tree and graph that are not stored sequentially or ordered.
What is inheritance? Name its types.
One of the most significant ideas of OOPs languages is inheritance. We may apply the properties of one class to another via inheritance. The idea of inheritance improves the programming language’s code reusability.

Various types of inheritance are:

Single inheritance
Multi-level inheritance
Hierarchical inheritance
Multiple inheritances
Hybrid inheritance
Multipath inheritance
What is the difference between array and pointer?
An array is a collection of comparable elements with the same data type, whereas a pointer is a variable that points to some data type in memory. Arrays can only contain components of the same data type, but pointers can link to any data type variable.

Questions and Answers on C, C++
What is Preprocessor in C/C++?
Preprocessors are programmes that examine a piece of code before compiling it. Preprocessor programmes, which begin with the # symbol, give preprocessor directives that inform the compiler to preprocess the code before compiling.

Why do we use stdio. h in a program?
“Standard input-output” is abbreviated as “stdio.” As a result, #include is the same as including this standard input-output library in your code. In this fashion, you can use the IO functions accessible via printf and scanf. It’s a pre-processor directive because it’s done before your code is processed.

What is a NULL pointer in C?
A NULL pointer is a pointer that does not refer to any address other than NULL. For instance, int *p=NULL;

What is a pointer on a pointer?
It’s a type of pointer variable that can hold the address of another type of pointer variable. It refers to the data stored in the selected pointer variable twice. For example, int x = 5, *p=&x, **q=&p; As a result, **q can access ‘x’.

What is the difference between the local variables and global variables in C?
Local variable: A local variable is a variable that is declared within the scope of a function or block.

Global variable: A global variable is a variable that is declared inside or within a function or block.

What is the use of return 0?
The main function in most C and C++ applications is type int. Hence it should return an integer value. The application’s “Exit Status” is determined by the return value of the main function. As a result, return 0 is utilized to complete the programmes using the integer return type.

Question and Answers on DBMS and SQL
What is Database Management System?
A database management system (DBMS) is a piece of software that allows you to create and manage databases. The end-user can construct and maintain databases with the help of a database management system (DBMS). The database management system (DBMS) links the end-user/application and the databases.

Enlist different advantages of DBMS.
Database Management System has a long number of benefits, as stated below:

Improved data security
Improved data sharing
Better data integration
Minimized data inconsistency
Improved data access
Improved decision making
Increased end-user productivity
What do you mean by Object-Relational DBMS?
The object-relational database (ORD) is a database management system (DBMS) that combines both an object-oriented and a relational database (RDBMS). ORD’s schemas and query language enable the main components of an object-oriented database model, such as inheritance, classes, and objects.

An object-relational database management system is another name for an object-relational database (ORDBMS).

What is database Schema?
The integrity restrictions placed on a database are a set of formulas (sentences) called the database schema.

What are DDL and DML commands in SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) is a programming language that is used to define data. DDL instructions are used to define database schema, which is to say, to construct and alter the database object structure. CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, and similar commands are examples.
Data Manipulation Language (DML) is a programming language that allows you to manipulate data. To manipulate the data in the database, DML commands are utilized. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are all examples of SQL commands.
Differentiate between TRUNCATE and DELETE commands in SQL.
TRUNCATE	DELETE
It’s used to get rid of all the records in a database table.	It is used to remove one or more records from a database table.

It’s a DDL command (Data Definition Language).	It’s a command in the Data Manipulation Language (DML).
DELETE command is faster.	When compared to the TRUNCATE command, this command is slower.
Because it only works on tables, it can’t be used for indexed views.	It’s possible to use it with indexed views.
Why indexing in SQL is useful?
A SQL index is a quick lookup table that aids in the discovery of frequently searched records. An index is a type of database that is quick, compact, and designed for quick lookups. It’s handy for connecting relational tables, searching huge tables, and quickly retrieving data from a database.

What is the left outer and right outer join in SQL?
Left outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the left table and the records from the right table that have been matched.
Right outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the right table and the records from the left table that are matched.
Joins in SQL
What is the stored procedure?
A stored procedure is a logical unit for a set of statements that may be retrieved by programmes that use an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System). These are saved in the data dictionary of the database. It can be used for data validation as well as access control.

Questions and Answers on Computer Networks and Software Testing
Different between a session and a socket?
The Socket is made up of the IP address and the Port Number. The logical connection between the source and the destination is known as a session.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
TCP	UDP
Connection-orientated protocol	Connectionless protocol
Segment sequencing	No sequencing
Acknowledge sequencing	No windowing and retransmission
Reliable transmission protocol	Unreliable transmission protocol
What is SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)?
SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) is an end-to-end procedure that outlines the software development flow from requirements to maintenance and support. Requirements analysis, planning, definition, design, development, testing, deployment, maintenance, and support are the steps of the SDLC.

SDLC-Software Development Life Cycle
What are the disadvantages of the Waterfall model?
Only after the life cycle is working software developed.
Unsuitable for both complicated and object-oriented programmes.
Measuring development within each step is difficult.
Not recommended for projects with regular requirements that could result in a significant risk of change. As a result, this model carries a significant level of risk and uncertainty. 
Because integration is completed at the end, it is impossible to discover any business or technology bottlenecks or issues early on.
Explain about Agile model.
Agile is a software development paradigm that uses an iterative approach to help teams offer value to their customers faster, with higher quality, fewer errors, and better flexibility in responding to change. Check Agile Methodology here.
Rather than a “big bang” launch, an agile team releases a product in modest increments. Requirements, planning, and outcome evaluation are all done regularly, so teams have a built-in mechanism for responding quickly to change.
The most popular Agile techniques are Scrum and Kanban.
What is DLL and EXE file extension?
The EXE file extension is used for executable files and identifies them as programmes. It is self-contained. An EXE establishes its memory and processing area.

A dynamic link library (DLL) is a collection of functions and procedures that other programmes can use. A variety of programmes can use this DLL. The caller application’s memory and process space will be shared.

Differentiate between white box and black box testing.
White box testing	Black box testing
The tester will completely understand the application’s internal workings.	It is not required that you understand the application’s internal workings.
Developers and testers are in charge of it (QA).	The end-user, developers, and testers are responsible for it.
It takes longer and requires more effort.	It takes a least and minimum of time and effort.
Test data and test cases will be created here by a tester.	External or end-user testing is carried out.
Open box, structural testing, clear box, and code-based testing are all terms used to describe white box testing.	Closed box, functional, and data-driven testing are other terms for black-box testing.
Which is the most popular SDLC model?
The waterfall model is one of them. The other is AGILE, which is gaining popularity because of its continuous iteration process, which is less prone to faults in a production setting.

Conclusion
We hope you find this post on Infosys Interview Questions and Answers to be helpful in your preparation for the Infosys interview.

If a candidate is not chosen, Infosys will not enable him or her to apply again for the next six months, so give it your all to pursue your dream job at Infosys. Remember that while no one can foretell what questions the interviewer will ask, preparation is essential for success in the Infosys interview process. This blog will prove to be helpful for Infosys system engineer interview questions or any other job profile that you want to get in.

Check out Interview Questions and Answers for in-demand domains
Java Interview Questions and Answers Coding Interview Questions and Answers SQL Interview Questions and Answers DevOps Interview Questions and Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the salary for freshers in Infosys?
Freshers’ Average Annual Salary at Infosys is ₹ 3,38,152/year with an estimated take-home salary of ₹ 24,564-₹ 25,983/month.

Can I join Infosys without a degree?
As most of the MNCs require a relevant Bachelor’s degree of 3 or 4 years, so does Infosys. However, Infosys has started making an exception of hiring folks with no degree but relevant knowledge and certification. As long as you have the skill set to do the job, you are welcomed by Infosys in the IT sector.

How should I prepare for Infosys technical interview?
The following knowledge is what Infosys requires you to possess for the technical interview. If you put the utmost effort into your preparation for these areas, you will undoubtedly succeed in the interview.

Programming languages like C, C++, or Java will be the subject of the majority of the questions. You must be certain that you are selecting the appropriate programming language because questions might be posed straight from syntax in this case. 
Basic computer concepts like OOPs, networking, and operating systems are possible question topics. You will also be required to write a program, the major focus of which will be on checking your knowledge of syntax and logic-building capabilities.
A thorough understanding of data structure fundamentals like a stack, linked list, queue, trees, graphs, etc. may come up as well. DSA is an important concept in terms of technical interviews.
You are required to have a solid understanding of database principles like SQL, MongoDB, etc. Here, questions can be posed using both SQL syntax and fundamental relational database concepts.
Is Infosys Interview easy to crack?
The Infosys interview is moderately challenging. You can simply go through all the rounds if you have strong technical and communication skills. You can address any complex questions posed by the interviewer at Infosys if you prepare well for the interview.

Why should we hire you in Infosys?
This, undoubtedly, is the most asked question in almost all companies. If you come across this question, you can answer it like, “I want to pursue a job that reflects my passion and interests because I have discovered that I am great at logic building and an extraordinary coder. I created various softwares during my time in college as part of our curriculum. I want to begin my career with a reputable IT firm, and I am confident that Infosys is the greatest place for me to learn more and have more prospects to advance.”

What is the work culture like at Infosys?
Infosys always maintains a highly welcoming workplace environment. The hierarchy is kept to a minimum, and fresh ideas are freely shared. In essence, Infosys seeks to establish a workspace where politics are reduced to a bare minimum, and the workforce relishes an open work environment.

Infosys has always considered its employees to be its most valuable resource, and it works tirelessly to inspire them by creating a pleasant and stable work environment. Infosys makes sure there is always a healthy work-life balance. On site, recreational and entertainment facilities keep employee productivity and satisfaction high.

How is Infosys interview for experienced?
At Infosys, there are typically two rounds of interviews for experienced candidates: a technical round and an HR round. However, for key positions, you might have to go through two or more rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

Why do you want to join Infosys?
You can answer this question by saying that Infosys is an ideal place for anybody to begin their career and a great place to learn and grow. A career at Infosys offers world-class training, excellent mentors and learning opportunities, fantastic infrastructure and facilities, along with great work culture. 

What is Database Management System?
A database management system (DBMS) is a piece of software that allows you to create and manage databases. The end-user can construct and maintain databases with the help of a database management system (DBMS). The database management system (DBMS) links the end-user/application and the databases.

Enlist different advantages of DBMS.
Database Management System has a long number of benefits, as stated below:

Improved data security
Improved data sharing
Better data integration
Minimized data inconsistency
Improved data access
Improved decision making
Increased end-user productivity
What do you mean by Object-Relational DBMS?
The object-relational database (ORD) is a database management system (DBMS) that combines both an object-oriented and a relational database (RDBMS). ORD’s schemas and query language enable the main components of an object-oriented database model, such as inheritance, classes, and objects.

An object-relational database management system is another name for an object-relational database (ORDBMS).

What is database Schema?
The integrity restrictions placed on a database are a set of formulas (sentences) called the database schema.

What are DDL and DML commands in SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) is a programming language that is used to define data. DDL instructions are used to define database schema, which is to say, to construct and alter the database object structure. CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, and similar commands are examples.
Data Manipulation Language (DML) is a programming language that allows you to manipulate data. To manipulate the data in the database, DML commands are utilized. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are all examples of SQL commands.
Differentiate between TRUNCATE and DELETE commands in SQL.
TRUNCATE	DELETE
It’s used to get rid of all the records in a database table.	It is used to remove one or more records from a database table.

It’s a DDL command (Data Definition Language).	It’s a command in the Data Manipulation Language (DML).
DELETE command is faster.	When compared to the TRUNCATE command, this command is slower.
Because it only works on tables, it can’t be used for indexed views.	It’s possible to use it with indexed views.
Why indexing in SQL is useful?
A SQL index is a quick lookup table that aids in the discovery of frequently searched records. An index is a type of database that is quick, compact, and designed for quick lookups. It’s handy for connecting relational tables, searching huge tables, and quickly retrieving data from a database.

What is the left outer and right outer join in SQL?
Left outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the left table and the records from the right table that have been matched.
Right outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the right table and the records from the left table that are matched.
Joins in SQL
What is the stored procedure?
A stored procedure is a logical unit for a set of statements that may be retrieved by programmes that use an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System). These are saved in the data dictionary of the database. It can be used for data validation as well as access control.

Questions and Answers on Computer Networks and Software Testing
Different between a session and a socket?
The Socket is made up of the IP address and the Port Number. The logical connection between the source and the destination is known as a session.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
TCP	UDP
Connection-orientated protocol	Connectionless protocol
Segment sequencing	No sequencing
Acknowledge sequencing	No windowing and retransmission
Reliable transmission protocol	Unreliable transmission protocol
What is SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)?
SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) is an end-to-end procedure that outlines the software development flow from requirements to maintenance and support. Requirements analysis, planning, definition, design, development, testing, deployment, maintenance, and support are the steps of the SDLC.

SDLC-Software Development Life Cycle
What are the disadvantages of the Waterfall model?
Only after the life cycle is working software developed.
Unsuitable for both complicated and object-oriented programmes.
Measuring development within each step is difficult.
Not recommended for projects with regular requirements that could result in a significant risk of change. As a result, this model carries a significant level of risk and uncertainty. 
Because integration is completed at the end, it is impossible to discover any business or technology bottlenecks or issues early on.
Explain about Agile model.
Agile is a software development paradigm that uses an iterative approach to help teams offer value to their customers faster, with higher quality, fewer errors, and better flexibility in responding to change. Check Agile Methodology here.
Rather than a “big bang” launch, an agile team releases a product in modest increments. Requirements, planning, and outcome evaluation are all done regularly, so teams have a built-in mechanism for responding quickly to change.
The most popular Agile techniques are Scrum and Kanban.
What is DLL and EXE file extension?
The EXE file extension is used for executable files and identifies them as programmes. It is self-contained. An EXE establishes its memory and processing area.

A dynamic link library (DLL) is a collection of functions and procedures that other programmes can use. A variety of programmes can use this DLL. The caller application’s memory and process space will be shared.

Differentiate between white box and black box testing.
White box testing	Black box testing
The tester will completely understand the application’s internal workings.	It is not required that you understand the application’s internal workings.
Developers and testers are in charge of it (QA).	The end-user, developers, and testers are responsible for it.
It takes longer and requires more effort.	It takes a least and minimum of time and effort.
Test data and test cases will be created here by a tester.	External or end-user testing is carried out.
Open box, structural testing, clear box, and code-based testing are all terms used to describe white box testing.	Closed box, functional, and data-driven testing are other terms for black-box testing.
Which is the most popular SDLC model?
The waterfall model is one of them. The other is AGILE, which is gaining popularity because of its continuous iteration process, which is less prone to faults in a production setting.

Conclusion
We hope you find this post on Infosys Interview Questions and Answers to be helpful in your preparation for the Infosys interview.

If a candidate is not chosen, Infosys will not enable him or her to apply again for the next six months, so give it your all to pursue your dream job at Infosys. Remember that while no one can foretell what questions the interviewer will ask, preparation is essential for success in the Infosys interview process. This blog will prove to be helpful for Infosys system engineer interview questions or any other job profile that you want to get in.

Check out Interview Questions and Answers for in-demand domains
Java Interview Questions and Answers Coding Interview Questions and Answers SQL Interview Questions and Answers DevOps Interview Questions and Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the salary for freshers in Infosys?
Freshers’ Average Annual Salary at Infosys is ₹ 3,38,152/year with an estimated take-home salary of ₹ 24,564-₹ 25,983/month.

Can I join Infosys without a degree?
As most of the MNCs require a relevant Bachelor’s degree of 3 or 4 years, so does Infosys. However, Infosys has started making an exception of hiring folks with no degree but relevant knowledge and certification. As long as you have the skill set to do the job, you are welcomed by Infosys in the IT sector.

How should I prepare for Infosys technical interview?
The following knowledge is what Infosys requires you to possess for the technical interview. If you put the utmost effort into your preparation for these areas, you will undoubtedly succeed in the interview.

Programming languages like C, C++, or Java will be the subject of the majority of the questions. You must be certain that you are selecting the appropriate programming language because questions might be posed straight from syntax in this case. 
Basic computer concepts like OOPs, networking, and operating systems are possible question topics. You will also be required to write a program, the major focus of which will be on checking your knowledge of syntax and logic-building capabilities.
A thorough understanding of data structure fundamentals like a stack, linked list, queue, trees, graphs, etc. may come up as well. DSA is an important concept in terms of technical interviews.
You are required to have a solid understanding of database principles like SQL, MongoDB, etc. Here, questions can be posed using both SQL syntax and fundamental relational database concepts.
Is Infosys Interview easy to crack?
The Infosys interview is moderately challenging. You can simply go through all the rounds if you have strong technical and communication skills. You can address any complex questions posed by the interviewer at Infosys if you prepare well for the interview.

Why should we hire you in Infosys?
This, undoubtedly, is the most asked question in almost all companies. If you come across this question, you can answer it like, “I want to pursue a job that reflects my passion and interests because I have discovered that I am great at logic building and an extraordinary coder. I created various softwares during my time in college as part of our curriculum. I want to begin my career with a reputable IT firm, and I am confident that Infosys is the greatest place for me to learn more and have more prospects to advance.”

What is the work culture like at Infosys?
Infosys always maintains a highly welcoming workplace environment. The hierarchy is kept to a minimum, and fresh ideas are freely shared. In essence, Infosys seeks to establish a workspace where politics are reduced to a bare minimum, and the workforce relishes an open work environment.

Infosys has always considered its employees to be its most valuable resource, and it works tirelessly to inspire them by creating a pleasant and stable work environment. Infosys makes sure there is always a healthy work-life balance. On site, recreational and entertainment facilities keep employee productivity and satisfaction high.

How is Infosys interview for experienced?
At Infosys, there are typically two rounds of interviews for experienced candidates: a technical round and an HR round. However, for key positions, you might have to go through two or more rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

Why do you want to join Infosys?
You can answer this question by saying that Infosys is an ideal place for anybody to begin their career and a great place to learn and grow. A career at Infosys offers world-class training, excellent mentors and learning opportunities, fantastic infrastructure and facilities, along with great work culture. 

How many rounds are there in Infosys placement?
There are essentially going to be 3 rounds:

Online assessment round
Technical interview round
HR interview round
For experienced candidates as well, the hiring procedure does not change. For some different positions, however, you might need to go through two rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

What is InfyTQ certification?
The InfyTQ certification test evaluates your industry preparedness by assessing your understanding of databases and programming. The best thing about InfyTQ is that, if you pass the test, you can have a direct interview with Infosys for a job.

How do I qualify for InfyTQ?
Following is the eligibility criteria to qualify in InfyTQ:

https://www.mygreatlearning.com/blog/infosys-interview-questions/

1. what is JIT?

JIT is an acronym for the “Just in time” compiler. The native language is utilized to translate the intermediate code. During execution, the intermediate code is transformed into the native language.

2. Describe BCL and its features.

A base class library (BCL) is a collection of classes, interfaces, and value types.
It serves as the basis for all.NET framework programs, elements, and controls.
encapsulates a vast array of frequently used features and makes them readily available to developers.
It offers features including input/output, security, diagnostics, resources, globalization, and threading.
Further performs the function of facilitating user and runtime interaction.
Similarly, it offers namespaces that are frequently used. For example- system, system. Things to do, etc.
3. What precisely is LINQ?

It stands for Language Integrated Query, a feature that was added to Visual Studio 2008. LINQ is a collection of features that adds query functionality to the syntax of the.NET framework and enables data manipulation from any data source. The world of data and the world of objects are connected by LINQ.

Cognizant Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental conditions needed for connection pooling?

Connection pooling needs to meet the following two conditions:

To share a connection and describe the same parameters and security settings, multiple processes are required.
The connection string needs to match exactly.
2. Which adapter should be used to get the data from an Access database?

The data is obtained from an Access database using OleDbDataAdapter.

3. Why do you use the term “AutoPostBack”?

When an event is raised, a property called AutoPostBack is utilized to postback automatically. The control’s AutoPostBack property must be set to True.

Accenture Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental components of OOP?

The fundamental elements of OOP are:

Encapsulation is the process of creating independent modules that link functions that access data with the data itself.

Abstraction: Manages complexity and permits the implementation of additional sophisticated functionality without making it visible to the user object.

Polymorphism: To enable simple integration, the operation is dependent on the context at runtime.

A class can inherit behavior from its parent class and reuse code by creating classes in a hierarchy.

2. How does OOP relate to the.NET Framework?

The term “object-oriented programming” (OOP) is an abbreviation. It is a programming structure that accomplishes the needed functionality without the usage of methods by using independent things known as “objects.” OOP enables.NET programmers to build classes and programs that contain logical modules like methods, properties, fields, and events.

3. What kinds of JIT Compilers are there?

Three categories of JIT Compilers exist:

1.Tell about you?
A formal ice breaking-warm up question. Just tell “Who you are” and “What you do”. Don’t try to detail your life story ,by asking this questions they are expecting you to get tell your professional and education life. Start with little bit of personal details and then dive in to your academic excellence stories and slowly one by one describe about your companies and projects.
2.Talk about your Last project and your role you done?
Just describe about your current project in details and technologies used for it. Then just tell a tast you have done recently.
Interviewer Given me a piece of paper and asked to draw the architect of the project.And also the
3.What is DotNet and compare DotNet versions?
 Asked to compare the versions of .NET. So make sure you have an overall idea about the history of .Net framework and versions.
5.What is String builder ?.What is the advantage and disadvantage ?
Study what is string in C#. Understand its advantage and disadvantages. Then understand what is string builder and study comparing both.
6.Tell about the testing you have done in your project ?. talk about any specific tool you used for testing?
You can tell you have done unit testing. Or you can tell you have done manual testing for your projects. Talk about testing from a developers view.
7.Tell me about the methodology and architecture used in your last project ?
Tell about any design patters used in your previous projects.
8.What is View State ?
Tell about the state management techniques used in Web forms . etc
9.What is boxing and Un-Boxing ,Casting and type conversion?
The operation of Converting a “Value Type”(example :int or float) to a “Reference Type”(example :Object) is called Boxing and the reverse operation is called Unboxing.type Casting or Type Conversion is a mechanism to convert one data type value to another one. Type conversion is possible if both the data types are compatible to each other; otherwise you will get an InvalidCastException.
10.Difference between int and int 32?
Its a confusing question. Best answer is BOTH ARE SAME.
“Int” is a data type keyword defined by the language, C#. Int32 is a data type defined by the .NET Common Type System (CTS). It is mapped to Int32 of FCL type in c#.
Both are signed and takes 32 bits.
11.What is Session and why it is used and compare it with ,Application and cache ?
Since HTTP is stateless ,we use Session object to hold information about one single user, and are available to all pages in one application(across the pages). Common information stored in session variables are name, id, and preferences. The server creates a new Session object for each new user, and destroys the Session object when the session expires.
12.What is Jquery ?Write a small Jquery program?
Query is a very common java-script framework. And i wrote a small basic jquery syntax program.
13.Write SDLC(Software development life cycle ) phases ?
Just start from requirements gathering and start on going. Just understand the entire phased thoroughly.
14.Which SDLC method you followed in your last commercial project ?
You can tell you followed typical water fall model or agile method according your experience.
15.What is Globalization and Localization ?
16. What is XML Serialization in .Net. ?
17.Is Value type variables stored in Stack ?
Yes value type is stored in stack and reference type is stored in Heap.
18.Would you like to ask us any queries or doubts ?
You have to ask something about the company and projects for sure.
Fortunately i got selected for a whoopng package 6.5 Lakhs per annum. So happy to be part of a big company. Best of luck for all who are going to attend the interview

https://intellipaat.com/blog/interview-question/dot-net-interview-questions/

1. What is exactly the .Net framework?
The object-oriented technique is supported by the.NET framework and is used to create Windows programs. It supports a wide range of languages, including C#, VB, Cobol, Perl, and.NET. It contains various functions and tools, including classes, libraries, and APIs, which are used to create, deploy, and run web services and multiple applications.

2. Major components of the.Net framework
dotnet framework

3. What is Common language runtime(CLR)?
The code is executed by this engine, which also offers services that facilitate the development process.

Regardless of the programming language used, the CLR executes applications created for the.NET Framework. CLR is present in every.NET Framework version.

4. Describe a Common type system(CTS)
The CTS standard outlines the categories of data values that can be defined and maintained in runtime memory. it will ensure that programming data defined in various languages interact with one another. For instance, while C# describes as a data type, VB.NET integer is a data type.

Transferring data from a type in one language to its corresponding type in another can be utilized to avoid data loss.

5. state the Common language specification(CLS)
A subset of CTS called Common Language Specification (CLS) outlines a set of guidelines that all languages using the.NET Framework to confirm.

A CLS will support interoperability or cross-language integration. For instance, every programming language supported by the.NET framework (C#, F#, VB.Net, etc.) has its syntax. Therefore, when statements from various languages are performed, the CLS will offer a standard communication and information-sharing platform.

6. Describe .Net Assembly
The main component of the.NET Framework is known as a.NET assembly. In the CLI (Common Language Infrastructure), an assembly is a logical unit of code used for deployment, versioning, and security. Executable (.exe) files and Dynamic Link Libraries (.dll) are the two ways that assembly can be defined.

7. what is Namespace in Dot Net?
It is the group of predefined classes and methods found in the.Net Framework. Through “using a system,” where the system stands in for a namespace while using a keyword, a namespace can be introduced to a.NET program.

8. What do you mean ASP.Net?
Microsoft Corporation’s propitiatory frontend language is called ASP.NET. The term is “Active Server Pages.” The name alone declares that I’m engaged. The client machine will execute the ASP code, which will display the data the server is returning.

9. Explain ASP.Net state management.
State management refers to expressly maintaining the state of a control, web page, data, and user in the application. Because all ASP.NET web applications are stateless by default, every time a page is submitted to the server, the state of controls is lost.

10. Distinguish a function and stored procedure
A process is utilized to carry out specific tasks sequentially. A procedure has many functions. A function returns control and value to the function or code. The calling function or code receives control from a procedure but not any values.

TCS Dot Net Interview Questions
If you are fresher or experienced, this is the right platform to help you start your preparation for the TCS .Net Interview Questions and Answers.

1. what is JIT?
JIT is an acronym for the “Just in time” compiler. The native language is utilized to translate the intermediate code. During execution, the intermediate code is transformed into the native language.

2. Describe BCL and its features.
A base class library (BCL) is a collection of classes, interfaces, and value types.
It serves as the basis for all.NET framework programs, elements, and controls.
Encapsulates a vast array of frequently used features and makes them readily available to developers.
It offers features including input/output, security, diagnostics, resources, globalization, and threading.
Further performs the function of facilitating user and runtime interaction.
Similarly, it offers namespaces that are frequently used. For example- system, system. Things to do, etc.
3. What precisely is LINQ?
It stands for Language Integrated Query, a feature that was added to Visual Studio 2008. LINQ is a collection of features that adds query functionality to the syntax of the.NET framework and enables data manipulation from any data source. The world of data and the world of objects are connected by LINQ.

4. Distinguish MDI and SDI.
An MDI (Many Document Interface) allows you to open multiple windows; it has one parent window and as many child windows as you need. The parent window’s components, such as the menu bar and toolbar, are shared.

Each document is presented in a separate window using the SDI (Single Document Interface) interface. Each window has its features, such as a menu bar and toolbar. It is not limited to the parent window as a result.

5. What is the difference between a stack and a heap?
Stack	Heap
Type of stored value.

Reference type stored.

Every thread in execution is tracked by a stack and its location.

The heap is in charge of maintaining track of the finer-grained items or data.

6. Differentiate localization and globalization.
Globalization	localization
The process of creating software that supports various languages is known as globalization.

To adapt the already globally accessible program to a particular language or culture

Multiple language support can also be added to already existing applications.

Microsoft.Extensions. The program content is localized using localization.

7. List the events in the page life cycle.
The following activities make up the page life cycle:

preInit_page
init_page
initcomplete_page
preLoad_page
load_page
oadcomplete_page
preRender_render
8. What are variables and constants in.NET?
Variable: A variable is a place in the computer’s memory where data is stored and which has a name and a value. Every variable has a data type associated with it that specifies the kind of value that can be placed in it.

Constant: The difference between a constant and a variable is their respective values. A constant’s value cannot be changed once it has been assigned. At the same moment, they are declared, constants must also be initialized.

9. what are tuples in .Net?
A fixed-size collection called a tuple might include components of the same data type or various data types. Like with arrays, the user must specify the size of a tuple when it is declared.

10. How do you check whether a DataReader is closed or opened?
To determine whether a DataReader is open or closed, the “IsClosed” attribute is utilized. If a Data Reader is closed, this property returns a true value; otherwise, a false value is returned.

Accenture Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental components of OOP?
The fundamental elements of OOP are: Encapsulation is the process of creating independent modules that link functions that access data with the data itself.

Abstraction: Manages complexity and permits the implementation of additional sophisticated functionality without making it visible to the user object.

Polymorphism: To enable simple integration, the operation is dependent on the context at runtime. A class can inherit behavior from its parent class and reuse code by creating classes in a hierarchy.

2. How does OOP relate to the.NET Framework?
The term “object-oriented programming” (OOP) is an abbreviation. It is a programming structure that accomplishes the needed functionality without the usage of methods by using independent things known as “objects.” OOP enables.NET programmers to build classes and programs that contain logical modules like methods, properties, fields, and events.

3. What kinds of JIT Compilers are there?
Three categories of JIT Compilers exist:

Pre-JIT compiler: It performs a single compilation cycle, or at the time the application is deployed, to convert all of the source code into machine code.

Normal JIT Compiler: The run-time needed source code methods are converted into machine code and saved in the cache to be invoked later.

Econo JIT Compiler: This compiler is used to compile methods that are only needed at runtime and are not saved for later usage.

4. What does.NET caching do?
The.NET Framework’s caching feature enables data storage in memory for quick access. Making data accessible even when the data source is momentarily unavailable, increases scalability and aids in performance improvement.

5. Distinguish a queue from a stack
The Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) principle is used to process the values in a stack, so all items are added to and removed from the top. But when it comes to both insertion and deletion, a queue lists things according to the FIFO (First-In, First-Out) principle. The elements are added to a queue from the back end and removed from the front end.

6. Distinguish the While and for loops. Give each loop a.NET syntax.
While the While loop is a control flow statement that enables repetitive code execution, the for loop offers a simple approach to writing the loop structure. At the beginning of the for loop, initialization, condition checking, and iteration statements are written; however, at the beginning of the while loop, only initialization and condition checking are completed.

7. Describe Marshaling.
The process of marshaling involves changing types in both managed and unmanaged code.

8. What are the differences between an EXE from a DLL?
Single outbound files known as EXE files are not able to be shared with other apps. DLL files are a type of shareable multiple inbound files.

9. How is ErrorProvider Control used in.NET?
While filling out a data entry form, the end-user is informed of any errors or invalid data using the ErrorProvider control. When entering faulty data, the control’s neighboring display shows the error message that is associated with the error description string.

10. What is Multithreading?
A process that uses many threads to complete various tasks simultaneously is known as multi-threading. Multi-threading is supported by NET in two ways:

Using ThreadStart delegates to start threads
Using asynchronous methods and the ThreadPool class.
11. Describe a PE file.
Portable Executable is referred to as PE. It is an offshoot of Microsoft Common Object File Format (COFF). executable for Windows. The PE file format is used by EXE and DLL files.

There are four sections to it:

EXE or DLL file information is contained in the PE/COFF headers.
CLR header—Contains details regarding CLR and memory administration.
CLR data – Consists of DDL and MSIL metadata produced by compilers.
Native image portion—This component includes sub-sections such as .data, .rdata, .rsrc, and .text.
12. Describe ADO.
ActiveX Data Objects is referred to as ADO. It is a program used to create Windows programs. Access to a relational or non-relational database from database providers like Microsoft and others is obtained using this method.

13. Differentiate a release build and a debug build.
Debug builds are not optimized and permit precise breakpoint settings. While the built-in “Release” mode of the code is optimized for speed or size without any debug data, they contain debugging symbols.

14. What is the difference between the trace class and debug class?
The Debug class is included, and this is when the application is being developed. While being used at the time of application deployment, the call to the Trace class is included in both Debug and Release modes.

15. What Is Hashtable?
Key-value pairs are kept in a collection called a hashtable. To access elements in the collection, it employs the hash codes of each key to organize the pairings.

16. Define Method Overriding.
Using the same name, return type, argument, and calling the same methods from a different class (base class) in the derived class is a process known as method overriding.

17. What are the differences between overriding and shadowing?
Shadowing is used to give the base class method a new implementation and helps guard against future base class alteration. By overriding, you can accomplish polymorphism by rewriting a base class method with a distinct definition.

18. Describe polymorphism.
A single interface with various functionalities is referred to as polymorphic. According to the run-time type of the instance that invokes it, the same method or property can carry out several tasks.

19. What.NET Framework design patterns are there?
1. Factory Method (Creational Design Pattern)
Abstract Factory
A builder.
Prototype
Singleton
Adapter
2. Structural Design Patterns
Bridge
Composite
A decorator
Facade
Flyweight
A proxy
3. Chain of Responsibility Behavioral Design Pattern
Direction
A translator
Iterator
Arbitrator
Memo
The onlooker
State
Plan
Guests
Template Method
20. Write a program to calculate the addition of two numbers.
You must start a brand-new “CalculateSum” ASP.NET Core project. File > New > Project in Visual Studio 2015.

Choose Web in the left pane, then choose ASP.NET Core Web Application (.NET Core) in the middle pane. Click OK after changing the project’s name to “CalculateSum”.

Choose Web Application in the template window, change the Authentication setting to “No Authentication,” and then click OK.

Click Add New Item from the context menu after opening “Solution Explorer” and selecting the folder “Home” (it is located under Views).

To add a page, click the Add button after renaming the MVC View Page Template to “addition. cshtml” in the ASP.NET Section.

Open addition. cshtml and the following code:

@{
    ViewBag.Title = "Addition Page";
    }
    Welcome to Addition Page
    form asp-controller="Home" asp-action="add" method="post"
    span Enter First Number :  input id="Text1" type="text" name="txtFirstNum" 
    span Enter Second Number : input id="Text2" type="text" name="txtSecondNum" 
    input id="Submit1" type="submit" value="Add" 
    form
    @ViewBag.Result
    
    using System;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    namespace CalculateSum.Controllers
    {
    public class HomeController: Controller
    {
    public IActionResult Index()
    {
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult About()
    {
    ViewData["Message"] = "Application description page.";
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult Contact()
    {
    ViewData["Message"] = "Contact page.";
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult Error()
    {
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult addition()
    {
    return View();
    }
    [HttpPost]
    public IActionResult add()
    {
    int number1 = Convert.ToInt32(HttpContext.Request.Form["txtFirstNum"].ToString());
    int number2 = Convert.ToInt32(HttpContext.Request.Form["txtSecondNum"].ToString());
    int res = number1 + number2;
    ViewBag.Result = res.ToString();
    return View("addition");
    }
    }
    }
    Press Ctrl+F5 to start your program now. This will open a browser and load an ASP.NET Core webpage. After adding /Home/addition to the end of the URL, press enter.
    
Below is the output format:

Dot Net Interview Questions

https://www.btreesystem.com/blog/dot-net-interview-questions/

https://dotnettutorials.net/course/csharp-dot-net-tutorials/

1.) .net framework — DOT NET Framework , CLR ,CTS , dot net program execution flow , intermediate language , managed and unmanaged code , garbage collector ,Assembly DLL EXE in .NET Framework , strong and weak assembly , app domain.

2.) C# — basics , oops , exception handling , delegates , multithreading , collection framework and generic.

3.) SQL — basics ,keys , clauses , operator, joins , indexes ,built in function, store procedure , difference between Store procedure and function,views , Trigger .

4.) Web api —introduction ,http Verb ( get ,post ,put ,delete) , calling web api from jQuery, Routing , security , versioning

5.) Ado.net — introduction , Sqlconnection, Sqlconmand , sqldatareader , sqldataadapater, dataset, datatable , architecture of Ado.net

6.) Entity framework— basics , database first approach .

7.) Asp.net MVC— MVC , routing , html helper, attributes , data annotations, action results , view ,filter , security.

Note — This are the main. Each and every topic contain sub topic . Kindly referred link mentioned above. It helped me a lot. For notes you can contact with me.

program for string reverse(eg:- i am boy -> boy am i)

WHAT IS HTTP 500 Internal Server Error? CAN I SOLVE THIS?

https://www.allinterview.com/company/1111/infosys/interview-questions/25/sql-server.html

1)Declare array with five elements a[]={8,4,6,2,1,10} Print minimum and maximum no from array.

https://www.allinterview.com/company/1111/infosys/interview-questions/18/javascript.html

How .net assemblies are registred as private and shared
assembly ?

Any assembly file (.net dll, .net exe ) is by default is
Private assembly. This means the assembly is visible only to
the application that loads/references it explicitly. Each


application that refers our private assembly will get its
own copy in its assembly.
Shared assembly is the assembly that is registered to the
GAC (Global Assembly Cache) that is part of the .Net
framework installed (under 'windows/assembly' directory) on
a system. We use 'gacutils.exe' binary to register the GAC
such as gacutil -i MyAssembly.exe. All applications those
reference a 'registered global assembly' would use the same

https://www.techtutorial.in/asp-dot-net-interview-questions-and-answers-set-10/

copy of the assembly present in the GAC. Hence it is called
'Shared assembly'.

816232
Write a program. there are 1..n numbers placed in an array in random fashion with one integer missing. find the missing number.
Pre-JIT compiler: It performs a single compilation cycle, or at the time the application is deployed, to convert all of the source code into machine code.
Normal JIT Compiler: The run-time needed source code methods are converted into machine code and saved in the cache to be invoked later.
Econo JIT Compiler: This compiler is used to compile methods that are only needed at runtime and are not saved for later usage.

Graduates from B.E., B. Tech, M.E., M. Tech., M.Sc., MCA, or MCM
Must be an Indian citizen
Minimum 60% marks throughout the academic years
What qualifications and personal skills does Infosys normally look for in freshers?
Academic qualifications and professional achievements are both highly valued by Infosys. Some qualities and skills employers look for in potential candidates, particularly at entry-level positions, include analytical skills, teamwork, and leadership skills, communication skills, and the ability to innovate and create.

How many rounds are there in Infosys placement?
There are essentially going to be 3 rounds:

Online assessment round
Technical interview round
HR interview round
For experienced candidates as well, the hiring procedure does not change. For some different positions, however, you might need to go through two rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

What is InfyTQ certification?
The InfyTQ certification test evaluates your industry preparedness by assessing your understanding of databases and programming. The best thing about InfyTQ is that, if you pass the test, you can have a direct interview with Infosys for a job.

How do I qualify for InfyTQ?
Following is the eligibility criteria to qualify in InfyTQ:

Graduates from B.E., B. Tech, M.E., M. Tech., M.Sc., MCA, or MCM
Must be an Indian citizen
Minimum 60% marks throughout the academic years
local and global variable, oops concepts

Job Description
Key Skills
ASP.Net, C#, AWS, Angular JS, Kendo UI, Linq
Hiring Unit
Unit-Engineering services
Qualification
BE, BTech, MCA, MTech, MSc
Location
Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Chennai, Pune
Role Designation
Senior Systems Engineer , Technology Analyst
Job Description
Technical & Professional Requirements
• Required minimum2 years of experience working in .NET, C#, OOP Concepts MVC applications, AWS,• Proficiency with Web Services –Web APIs, REST, WCF, SOAP, TCP/IP,• Familiarity with JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS, React, jQuery /Bootstrap,• Demonstrates a sound understanding of software quality assurance principles, SOLID design principles and modeling methods,• Good to have experience in Azure based web application development involving ADL, ADLS, ADLA, Azure Storage,• Excellent Problem Solving Analytical and Debugging Skills,• Ability to work in team in diverse/ multiple stakeholder environment,• Analytical, Communication and Client Interfacing skills,• Location of posting is driven by business needs.
Responsibilities
• Implement design, development, validation and support activities in line with client needs and architectural requirements.,• Participate in Knowledge Management.,• Ensuring highest levels of service offerings to clients in own technology domain within the guidelines, policies and norms of Infosys


1. what is explicit implementing interface?
Explicit interface implementation in C# is a technique where a class provides an implementation for the members of an interface in a way that requires the use of the interface name to access those members. This is useful when a class implements multiple interfaces that have members with the same name.

When you explicitly implement an interface, the interface members are implemented using the explicit interface syntax, and the class members do not conflict with each other. This is done by prefixing the interface name followed by a dot before the member name. It helps to avoid naming conflicts and ensures a clean separation between the interface implementations.

Here's an example to illustrate explicit interface implementation:

csharp
Copy code
using System;

interface IShape
{
    void Display();
}

class Circle : IShape
{
    private double radius;

    public Circle(double radius)
    {
        this.radius = radius;
    }

    // Explicit interface implementation
    void IShape.Display()
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Displaying circle with radius {radius}");
    }
}

class Square : IShape
{
    private double side;

    public Square(double side)
    {
        this.side = side;
    }

    // Explicit interface implementation
    void IShape.Display()
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Displaying square with side {side}");
    }
}

class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        IShape circle = new Circle(5.0);
        IShape square = new Square(4.0);

        // Accessing the explicit interface implementation
        circle.Display(); // Output: Displaying circle with radius 5
        square.Display(); // Output: Displaying square with side 4
    }
}
In this example, both the Circle and Square classes implement the IShape interface with a Display method. The Display method is explicitly implemented, and to access it, you need to use the interface name (IShape) followed by a dot (.).

Explicit interface implementation helps in scenarios where two or more interfaces share a common method name, and you want to avoid naming conflicts in the implementing class. It also allows a class to have different implementations of the same method for different interfaces.



2. What is GC?
In the context of programming and computer systems, "GC" often refers to "Garbage Collection." Garbage Collection is a process by which a programming language's runtime environment automatically manages memory by reclaiming memory that is no longer in use or reachable by the program.

Here's a brief overview of how garbage collection works:

Memory Allocation:

When a program runs, it allocates memory for variables, objects, and other data structures. The memory allocation can be dynamic (e.g., using new or malloc in languages like C++ or C#) or automatic (e.g., in languages like Python or Java).
Object Lifetimes:

Objects or data structures are created during the execution of a program, and their lifetimes are managed by the program. Some objects become unreachable or unused during the course of execution.
Identifying Garbage:

The garbage collector periodically identifies and marks the objects in memory that are no longer reachable or in use by the program. It does this by tracing the references between objects and identifying those that are not part of any accessible chain.
Reclaiming Memory:

After identifying the garbage, the garbage collector releases or reclaims the memory occupied by these unreachable objects. This process frees up memory that can be used for new allocations.
Garbage collection is particularly common in languages with automatic memory management, such as Java, C#, Python, and JavaScript. These languages abstract away the manual allocation and deallocation of memory, making it easier for developers to write code without worrying about memory leaks or freeing up memory explicitly.

Different garbage collection algorithms exist, each with its strengths and weaknesses. Some common garbage collection algorithms include:

Mark and Sweep: Identifies and marks reachable objects, then sweeps through the memory, collecting and freeing up memory occupied by unreachable objects.

Generational Garbage Collection: Divides the heap into different generations and assumes that newly created objects are more likely to become garbage sooner than older ones. It often collects younger objects more frequently and older objects less frequently.

Reference Counting: Maintains a count of references for each object. When the count drops to zero, the object is considered garbage. However, this approach may have difficulties handling circular references.

Garbage collection plays a crucial role in managing memory efficiently and preventing memory leaks in programs, particularly in languages where manual memory management can be error-prone and challenging.


3. What is Finalize and disposable?
Finalize and IDisposable are concepts in C# related to managing resources, particularly in the context of releasing unmanaged resources, such as file handles, network connections, or memory, when they are no longer needed.

Finalize Method:
The Finalize method is part of the .NET garbage collection process. It is automatically called by the garbage collector before an object is reclaimed (i.e., before its memory is freed). Developers can override the Finalize method in a class to provide cleanup code for unmanaged resources.

csharp
Copy code
public class MyClass
{
    // Other members...

    // Finalize method
    ~MyClass()
    {
        // Cleanup code for unmanaged resources
        // (e.g., closing file handles, network connections)
    }
}
However, relying solely on the Finalize method has some limitations. The timing of when the finalizer is called is not guaranteed, and it may lead to delays in releasing resources. Additionally, the order in which finalizers are executed is not deterministic, and it's not recommended to rely on finalizers for timely resource cleanup.

IDisposable Interface:
The IDisposable interface provides a more controlled and deterministic way to release resources. It includes a single method, Dispose, which should be explicitly called when the resources are no longer needed. This allows for immediate resource cleanup and ensures that resources are released in a timely manner.

csharp
Copy code
public class MyDisposableClass : IDisposable
{
    // Other members...

    // IDisposable implementation
    public void Dispose()
    {
        // Cleanup code for unmanaged resources
        // (e.g., closing file handles, network connections)

        // Suppress finalization to avoid redundant cleanup
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    // Finalize method (optional, for additional safety)
    ~MyDisposableClass()
    {
        // Cleanup code for unmanaged resources
        // (e.g., closing file handles, network connections)
    }
}
The Dispose method can be called explicitly by the developer, or it can be used within a using statement to ensure proper resource cleanup:

csharp
Copy code
using (var myObject = new MyDisposableClass())
{
    // Use myObject within the using block
} // Dispose method is automatically called when leaving the block
Implementing IDisposable and using the Dispose method is considered a best practice, especially when dealing with resources that need to be released promptly.

In summary, Finalize is part of the garbage collection process and is used for automatic resource cleanup, while IDisposable provides a more controlled and deterministic mechanism for releasing resources, allowing developers to explicitly manage resource cleanup. It's often recommended to implement IDisposable for classes that manage unmanaged resources.



4. How to call a base class constructor from derive class?
In C#, you can call the constructor of a base class from a derived class using the base keyword. The base keyword is used to access members of the base class, including constructors. Here's an example:

csharp
Copy code
public class MyBaseClass
{
    // Base class constructor
    public MyBaseClass(int parameter1, string parameter2)
    {
        // Constructor logic
    }
}

public class MyDerivedClass : MyBaseClass
{
    // Derived class constructor
    public MyDerivedClass(int parameter1, string parameter2, double parameter3)
        : base(parameter1, parameter2) // Call the base class constructor
    {
        // Derived class constructor logic
        // Additional logic specific to the derived class
    }
}
In this example:

MyBaseClass has a constructor that takes two parameters (int and string).
MyDerivedClass inherits from MyBaseClass and has its own constructor.
The constructor of MyDerivedClass uses the : base(parameter1, parameter2) syntax to call the constructor of the base class, passing the required parameters.
When you create an instance of MyDerivedClass, the base class constructor will be called first, followed by the constructor of the derived class.

Here's an example of how you might create instances of these classes:

csharp
Copy code
MyDerivedClass myDerivedObject = new MyDerivedClass(1, "example", 3.14);
In this case, the constructor of MyDerivedClass will call the constructor of MyBaseClass with the specified parameters. This allows you to initialize the state of the base class before adding any additional logic specific to the derived class.

5. What is anonymous methods? where we are using?
Anonymous methods in C# are unnamed methods defined directly within the body of a code block. They allow you to create delegate instances without explicitly defining a separate named method. Anonymous methods provide a concise way to define inline code blocks, often used as arguments for methods that accept delegates.

Here is the basic syntax for an anonymous method:

csharp
Copy code
delegate int MyDelegate(int x);

class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        // Anonymous method assigned to a delegate
        MyDelegate myDelegate = delegate(int x)
        {
            return x * 2;
        };

        // Using the delegate with the anonymous method
        int result = myDelegate(5);
        Console.WriteLine(result); // Output: 10
    }
}
In this example, an anonymous method is assigned to a delegate (MyDelegate). The delegate represents a method that takes an integer parameter and returns an integer. The anonymous method is defined directly within the delegate assignment, eliminating the need for a separate named method.

Anonymous methods are often used in scenarios where you need to provide a delegate instance as an argument to a method, such as:

Event Handlers:

csharp
Copy code
// Example in a Windows Forms application
button.Click += delegate(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    MessageBox.Show("Button Clicked!");
};
Asynchronous Programming:

csharp
Copy code
// Example using Task.Run with an anonymous method
Task.Run(delegate
{
    // Code to run asynchronously
});
LINQ Queries:

csharp
Copy code
// Example using LINQ with an anonymous method
var filteredList = myList.Where(delegate(int x)
{
    return x > 5;
});
Delegate Parameters:

csharp
Copy code
// Example passing an anonymous method as a parameter
void ProcessNumbers(Func<int, int> operation)
{
    int result = operation(10);
    Console.WriteLine(result);
}

ProcessNumbers(delegate(int x)
{
    return x * 3;
});
It's important to note that with the introduction of lambda expressions in C# 3.0, anonymous methods are less commonly used. Lambdas provide a more concise and expressive syntax for creating inline delegate instances. However, understanding anonymous methods is still relevant, especially when working with older codebases or when you encounter them in existing code.

6. What is multicast delegate?
A multicast delegate in C# is a type of delegate that can reference multiple methods, allowing you to invoke multiple methods with a single delegate invocation. Multicast delegates provide a convenient way to implement the Observer design pattern, where multiple subscribers (methods) can be notified of an event through a single delegate.

Here's a basic overview of multicast delegates:

Delegate Definition:
Define a delegate with the desired signature. The delegate keyword is used to declare the delegate type.

csharp
Copy code
delegate void MyDelegate(string message);
Creating a Multicast Delegate:
You can create a multicast delegate by combining multiple methods using the += (addition assignment) operator.

csharp
Copy code
MyDelegate myDelegate = Method1;
myDelegate += Method2;
myDelegate += Method3;
In this example, myDelegate now references three methods: Method1, Method2, and Method3.

Invoking a Multicast Delegate:
Invoking a multicast delegate triggers the execution of all the methods it references.

csharp
Copy code
myDelegate("Hello, world!");
Each method in the delegate is called with the specified argument.

Here's a complete example:

csharp
Copy code
using System;

delegate void MyDelegate(string message);

class Program
{
    static void Main()
    {
        MyDelegate myDelegate = Method1;
        myDelegate += Method2;
        myDelegate += Method3;

        // Invoke the multicast delegate
        myDelegate("Hello, world!");
    }

    static void Method1(string message)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Method1: {message}");
    }

    static void Method2(string message)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Method2: {message}");
    }

    static void Method3(string message)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Method3: {message}");
    }
}
Output:

makefile
Copy code
Method1: Hello, world!
Method2: Hello, world!
Method3: Hello, world!
It's important to note that multicast delegates maintain an ordered list of methods, and the order in which methods are added is the order in which they are invoked. Also, if any method throws an exception during execution, subsequent methods in the list might not be called.

Multicast delegates are commonly used in scenarios such as event handling, where multiple event handlers need to respond to an event. With the introduction of the event keyword and the EventHandler delegate in C#, event handling is often implemented using the event mechanism, which encapsulates multicast delegates.


7. Difference between Async vs sync?
The terms "async" (asynchronous) and "sync" (synchronous) refer to different approaches in programming related to the execution of tasks, particularly in handling I/O-bound or long-running operations. Here are the key differences between asynchronous and synchronous programming:

Synchronous (Sync):
Blocking Execution:

In synchronous programming, tasks are executed sequentially, and each task must complete before the next one starts.
When a function or operation is called, the program waits for it to finish before proceeding to the next line of code.
If a task takes a long time to complete (e.g., file I/O, network request), the entire program can be blocked, and the user interface may become unresponsive.
Simple Control Flow:

The control flow is straightforward, making it easier to read and understand the code.
Debugging and tracing the flow of execution are generally simpler in synchronous code.
Code Structure:

Synchronous code tends to have a more linear and straightforward structure, making it easy to follow.
Asynchronous (Async):
Non-Blocking Execution:

In asynchronous programming, tasks can overlap in execution, and the program doesn't need to wait for one task to complete before starting another.
Asynchronous operations are often used for I/O-bound tasks, such as reading from or writing to files, making network requests, or accessing databases.
Improved Responsiveness:

Asynchronous programming can enhance the responsiveness of applications, especially in scenarios where waiting for I/O operations would otherwise lead to performance issues.
Concurrency:

Asynchronous code allows for better concurrency, enabling the program to perform other tasks while waiting for I/O or other non-blocking operations to complete.
Event-Driven or Task-Based:

Asynchronous programming is often associated with event-driven or task-based patterns, where callbacks, promises, or async/await are used to handle asynchronous operations.
Complex Control Flow:

Asynchronous code can have a more complex control flow, as it involves handling callbacks or using constructs like promises or async/await to manage the asynchronous tasks.
Potential for Callback Hell:

In complex scenarios with numerous nested callbacks, asynchronous code may become harder to read and maintain, leading to a situation known as "callback hell." This issue is mitigated with modern async/await syntax.
In summary, synchronous programming executes tasks sequentially, one after another, while asynchronous programming allows tasks to overlap, improving responsiveness and concurrency. The choice between sync and async depends on the nature of the task and the desired performance characteristics of the application. Modern programming languages, including C#, provide support for both synchronous and asynchronous programming through language features like async/await.





8. Can i use await keyword in catch and finally?

In C#, you can use the await keyword in catch and finally blocks if the asynchronous operation you want to wait for is associated with a task. However, there are some considerations and limitations.

1. Using await in catch Block:
You can use await in a catch block if the exception handling logic involves an asynchronous operation. Here's an example:

csharp
Copy code
try
{
    // Code that might throw an exception
}
catch (Exception ex)
{
    // Handle the exception asynchronously
    await HandleExceptionAsync(ex);
}
2. Using await in finally Block:
Using await directly in a finally block is not supported because the finally block is meant for cleanup and is not directly associated with an asynchronous operation. However, you can call an asynchronous method within the finally block:

csharp
Copy code
try
{
    // Code that might throw an exception
}
finally
{
    // Call an asynchronous method within the finally block
    await CleanupAsync();
}
Important Considerations:
Avoid Blocking:

When using await in catch or finally, be cautious not to introduce blocking operations that might lead to deadlocks. Ensure that the asynchronous operations are truly asynchronous.
Exception Propagation:

When you use await in a catch block, the exception context is preserved, and the exception will continue to propagate after the asynchronous operation is completed.
Error Handling:

Ensure that proper error handling is in place for the asynchronous operation in the catch or finally block.
Here's a more complete example that includes both catch and finally blocks:

csharp
Copy code
try
{
    // Code that might throw an exception
}
catch (CustomException ex)
{
    // Handle the specific exception asynchronously
    await HandleCustomExceptionAsync(ex);
}
catch (Exception ex)
{
    // Handle other exceptions asynchronously
    await HandleGeneralExceptionAsync(ex);
}
finally
{
    // Cleanup resources asynchronously
    await CleanupResourcesAsync();
}
In summary, while you can use await in catch and finally blocks for asynchronous operations, it's essential to handle exceptions appropriately and ensure that the asynchronous operations don't introduce blocking issues or negatively impact error handling.





9. Difference between `IEnumrable` vs `IQueryable`?
IEnumerable and IQueryable are both interfaces in .NET that represent collections of data, but they are designed for different scenarios and have different characteristics. Here are the key differences between IEnumerable and IQueryable:

1. Definition and Namespace:
IEnumerable:
Defined in the System.Collections namespace.
Represents a forward-only cursor of a collection of objects.
IQueryable:
Defined in the System.Linq namespace.
Extends IEnumerable and adds support for querying data from a data source using LINQ.
2. Execution:
IEnumerable:
Executes queries on the client-side (in-memory).
Suitable for querying data structures like arrays, lists, or other in-memory collections.
IQueryable:
Executes queries on the server-side (deferred execution).
Suitable for querying external data sources like databases or remote services.
3. Lazy Loading and Deferred Execution:
IEnumerable:

Supports lazy loading but typically involves loading all data into memory before applying further operations.
Operations are evaluated and executed as soon as they are called.
IQueryable:

Supports deferred execution, allowing the creation of a query expression without immediately executing it.
The query is executed when the data is actually needed (e.g., during enumeration).
4. Expression Trees:
IEnumerable:

Works with delegates and represents operations using delegates.
Query operations are performed in-memory using the .NET runtime.
IQueryable:

Works with expression trees.
Query operations are represented as expression trees, which can be translated into a query language (e.g., SQL) and executed on a data source.
5. Optimized Queries:
IEnumerable:

Limited ability to optimize queries because operations are performed in-memory.
IQueryable:

Allows for query optimization since the query can be translated and executed on the underlying data source.
6. Use Cases:
IEnumerable:

Best suited for working with in-memory collections or sequences.
Useful for operations on collections like filtering, sorting, and projecting.
IQueryable:

Best suited for querying external data sources, such as databases.
Useful for building complex queries that are translated into optimized queries on the server.
Example:
csharp
Copy code
// IEnumerable example
IEnumerable<int> numbers = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
var filteredNumbers = numbers.Where(x => x > 2).ToList(); // Executes in-memory

// IQueryable example
IQueryable<int> queryableNumbers = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 }.AsQueryable();
var filteredQueryableNumbers = queryableNumbers.Where(x => x > 2).ToList(); // Executes as a query on the data source
In summary, IEnumerable is suitable for in-memory collections, and operations are performed locally, while IQueryable is designed for querying external data sources with support for deferred execution and optimized queries. The choice between them depends on the data source and the requirements of the query.


10. In case of lazy loading which one should be use `IEnumrable` vs `IQueryable`?
In the context of lazy loading, the choice between `IEnumerable` and `IQueryable` depends on the scenario and the nature of the data source. Let's explore both options:

### `IEnumerable` with Lazy Loading:

- **Lazy Loading Behavior:**
  - `IEnumerable` supports lazy loading to some extent. It loads data into memory only as needed when enumerating the collection.

- **Suitability:**
  - Suitable for in-memory collections or scenarios where the data is already loaded into memory (e.g., collections like lists, arrays).

- **Use Cases:**
  - Lazy loading with `IEnumerable` is commonly used when working with local, in-memory collections that don't involve querying external data sources.

- **Example:**
  ```csharp
  IEnumerable<int> numbers = GetNumbers(); // Lazy loading with in-memory collection
  var filteredNumbers = numbers.Where(x => x > 2).ToList(); // Lazy loading when enumerating
  ```

### `IQueryable` with Lazy Loading:

- **Lazy Loading Behavior:**
  - `IQueryable` is designed for deferred execution and lazy loading from external data sources.

- **Suitability:**
  - Suitable for scenarios where you need to query external data sources, such as databases, and want the query to be executed on the server.

- **Use Cases:**
  - Lazy loading with `IQueryable` is commonly used when working with database queries or remote data sources where you want the query to be translated and executed on the server.

- **Example:**
  ```csharp
  IQueryable<int> queryableNumbers = GetQueryableNumbers(); // Lazy loading with IQueryable
  var filteredQueryableNumbers = queryableNumbers.Where(x => x > 2).ToList(); // Lazy loading when enumerating
  ```

### Considerations:

1. **Performance:**
   - If your data is already in-memory and doesn't require querying external data sources, `IEnumerable` may be more straightforward and efficient.
   - If working with external data sources, `IQueryable` can provide better performance by allowing the query to be optimized and executed on the server.

2. **Query Optimization:**
   - `IQueryable` is often preferred when building complex queries for external data sources because it supports query optimization.

3. **Data Source:**
   - Consider the nature of your data source. If it's a database or another external source, `IQueryable` may be more appropriate.

4. **Deferred Execution:**
   - If you want the query to be executed only when the data is needed, both `IEnumerable` and `IQueryable` support deferred execution, but `IQueryable` is designed with this purpose in mind.

In summary, both `IEnumerable` and `IQueryable` can support lazy loading to some extent, but the choice depends on the nature of the data source and whether you need to optimize and execute queries on an external data source.


11. What is difference between `First` & `FirstOrDefault` in LINQ?
In LINQ, both `First` and `FirstOrDefault` are methods used to retrieve the first element from a sequence, but they have different behaviors when the sequence is empty. Here are the key differences:

### `First`:

1. **Usage:**
   - `First` is used to retrieve the first element from a sequence that satisfies a specified condition.

2. **Behavior on Empty Sequence:**
   - If the sequence is empty, calling `First` will throw an `InvalidOperationException`.

3. **Example:**
   ```csharp
   List<int> numbers = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
   int firstElement = numbers.First(); // Returns 1
   ```

### `FirstOrDefault`:

1. **Usage:**
   - `FirstOrDefault` is used to retrieve the first element from a sequence that satisfies a specified condition, or a default value if no such element is found.

2. **Behavior on Empty Sequence:**
   - If the sequence is empty, calling `FirstOrDefault` will return the default value for the type of elements in the sequence. For reference types, it will be `null`, and for value types, it will be the default value (e.g., 0 for `int`, `false` for `bool`).

3. **Example:**
   ```csharp
   List<int> numbers = new List<int> { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
   int firstOrDefaultElement = numbers.FirstOrDefault(); // Returns 1

   List<int> emptyList = new List<int>();
   int firstOrDefaultFromEmptyList = emptyList.FirstOrDefault(); // Returns 0 (default for int)
   ```

### Choosing Between `First` and `FirstOrDefault`:

- If you are confident that the sequence will always have at least one element that satisfies the condition, and an empty sequence would indicate a programming error, you can use `First`.

- If you expect the sequence might be empty under valid conditions, and you want to handle that situation gracefully without throwing an exception, you can use `FirstOrDefault`.

- Consider using `First` when an empty sequence is considered an exceptional case that should be addressed explicitly in your code, and use `FirstOrDefault` when you want to provide a default value for the case when the sequence is empty.

In summary, the primary difference lies in how they handle empty sequences. `First` throws an exception, while `FirstOrDefault` returns a default value for the type if the sequence is empty. Choose the appropriate method based on your requirements and how you want to handle empty sequences.

------Asp.net-----
12. Difference between **http module** vs **http handler**
Both HTTP modules and HTTP handlers are extensibility points in ASP.NET that allow developers to customize the processing of incoming HTTP requests. However, they serve different purposes and have distinct characteristics. Let's explore the differences between HTTP modules and HTTP handlers:

### HTTP Module:

1. **Purpose:**
   - **HTTP Module:**
     - Modules are components that run for every request processed by the ASP.NET pipeline.
     - They allow developers to tap into the processing of each request at different stages of the request lifecycle.

2. **Lifecycle:**
   - **HTTP Module:**
     - Modules are part of the ASP.NET request processing pipeline.
     - They have events like `BeginRequest`, `AuthenticateRequest`, `AuthorizeRequest`, `EndRequest`, etc., where developers can plug in custom logic.

3. **Execution for All Requests:**
   - **HTTP Module:**
     - Modules are executed for every request, regardless of the type of resource being requested (e.g., HTML page, image, CSS file).

4. **Configuration:**
   - **HTTP Module:**
     - Modules are typically configured in the `Web.config` file, specifying which events they should handle.

5. **Examples:**
   - Logging, authentication, authorization, compression, URL rewriting are common scenarios for implementing HTTP modules.

### HTTP Handler:

1. **Purpose:**
   - **HTTP Handler:**
     - Handlers are components responsible for processing specific types of requests or specific types of resources.
     - They are more focused on processing requests for specific file types or paths.

2. **Lifecycle:**
   - **HTTP Handler:**
     - Handlers are invoked when a request matches a specific file extension or path mapping.
     - They handle the entire request and generate the response.

3. **Execution for Specific Requests:**
   - **HTTP Handler:**
     - Handlers are executed for requests matching the specified file extension or path mapping.
     - For example, an image handler might be responsible for processing requests for image files.

4. **Configuration:**
   - **HTTP Handler:**
     - Handlers are typically registered in the `Web.config` file or in the IIS configuration to associate them with specific file extensions or paths.

5. **Examples:**
   - Handling requests for specific file types (e.g., images, PDFs), custom REST API endpoints, serving dynamically generated content are common scenarios for implementing HTTP handlers.

### Summary:

- **HTTP Modules** are global components that run for every request, allowing developers to tap into various stages of the request processing pipeline.
  
- **HTTP Handlers** are more focused on processing specific types of requests or resources and are invoked based on file extensions or path mappings.

In many scenarios, both modules and handlers are used together to achieve a combination of global request processing (modules) and specific resource handling (handlers). Developers can create custom modules and handlers to extend the functionality of their ASP.NET applications.

13. What is data annotation?
Data Annotations in .NET are a way to apply metadata to classes and class members, typically used in the context of data validation and to provide additional information about the data model. Data Annotations are attributes that you can apply to properties or classes to define rules or provide additional information about how the data should be handled.

Here are some commonly used Data Annotations in .NET:

1. **Validation Annotations:**
   - `Required`: Specifies that a property must have a non-null value.
   - `StringLength`: Specifies the maximum and minimum length of a string property.
   - `Range`: Specifies the allowable range for numeric properties.

   ```csharp
   public class Person
   {
       [Required]
       public string Name { get; set; }

       [StringLength(50)]
       public string Email { get; set; }

       [Range(1, 100)]
       public int Age { get; set; }
   }
   ```

2. **Display Annotations:**
   - `Display`: Specifies the display name for a property.
   - `DisplayFormat`: Specifies the display format for a property (e.g., date formatting).

   ```csharp
   public class Product
   {
       [Display(Name = "Product ID")]
       public int ProductID { get; set; }

       [DisplayFormat(DataFormatString = "{0:C}")]
       public decimal Price { get; set; }
   }
   ```

3. **DataType Annotations:**
   - `DataType`: Specifies the data type of a property.

   ```csharp
   public class Employee
   {
       [DataType(DataType.EmailAddress)]
       public string Email { get; set; }

       [DataType(DataType.Date)]
       public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
   }
   ```

4. **Concurrency Annotations:**
   - `Timestamp`: Specifies that a property represents a concurrency token for optimistic concurrency.

   ```csharp
   public class Product
   {
       public int ProductID { get; set; }

       [Timestamp]
       public byte[] RowVersion { get; set; }
   }
   ```

5. **Database Annotations:**
   - `Key`: Specifies the primary key property of an entity.

   ```csharp
   public class Order
   {
       [Key]
       public int OrderID { get; set; }

       // Other properties...
   }
   ```

6. **Custom Validation Annotations:**
   - You can create custom validation attributes by deriving from `ValidationAttribute` and applying them to properties.

   ```csharp
   public class CustomValidationAttribute : ValidationAttribute
   {
       // Implementation of custom validation logic
   }

   public class Person
   {
       [CustomValidation]
       public string CustomProperty { get; set; }
   }
   ```

Data Annotations are widely used in ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Core, and other .NET frameworks to perform model validation, generate user interface elements, and define database mappings. They provide a declarative way to express metadata about the data model, making the code more readable and maintainable.


14. What is **DI or (dependency injection)**?
Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern in software development that deals with how components or services get hold of their dependencies. In simpler terms, it is a technique for achieving Inversion of Control (IoC) in a system.

In a typical software system, components often depend on other components or services. For example, a class may rely on the functionality provided by another class or service. DI is a way to provide these dependencies to a class rather than having the class create them on its own.

Key concepts of Dependency Injection:

1. **Dependencies:**
   - A dependency is an object that another object depends on. For example, if a class uses a logger or a database connection, these are considered dependencies.

2. **Inversion of Control (IoC):**
   - IoC is a principle where the control of the flow of a system is inverted. In traditional programming, a component is responsible for managing its dependencies. With IoC, the control is inverted, and external entities (often a framework or container) manage the dependencies and inject them into the dependent components.

3. **Dependency Injector / Container:**
   - A container or injector is responsible for managing and injecting dependencies. It resolves dependencies and provides them to the dependent components.

4. **Injection Types:**
   - **Constructor Injection:** Dependencies are injected through the class constructor.
   - **Property Injection:** Dependencies are injected through public properties of the class.
   - **Method Injection:** Dependencies are injected through methods of the class.

### Example in C#:

Consider a simple example in C# where a `Car` class has a dependency on an `Engine` class:

```csharp
public class Engine
{
    public void Start()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Engine started!");
    }
}

public class Car
{
    private readonly Engine engine;

    // Constructor Injection
    public Car(Engine engine)
    {
        this.engine = engine;
    }

    public void Drive()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Car is driving.");
        engine.Start(); // Using the injected dependency
    }
}
```

With Dependency Injection, you could use a DI container or manually inject dependencies:

```csharp
// Manual Dependency Injection
Engine myEngine = new Engine();
Car myCar = new Car(myEngine);
myCar.Drive();
```

In a real-world scenario, a DI container/framework (e.g., Autofac, Unity, ASP.NET Core DI) would handle the injection of dependencies automatically, making the code more maintainable and flexible.

Dependency Injection promotes loosely coupled code, improves testability, and allows for easier maintenance and scalability of the codebase. It is widely used in modern software development, and many frameworks and libraries provide built-in support for DI.

15. What is AntiForgeryToken?
An AntiForgeryToken, also known as Anti-CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) Token, is a security measure used in web applications to protect against CSRF attacks. CSRF is an attack where an attacker tricks a user's browser into making an unintended request on a web application, potentially leading to unauthorized actions being performed on behalf of the user.

The AntiForgeryToken is a unique token that is generated by the server and embedded in a web form. When the form is submitted, the server validates the presence and correctness of this token to ensure that the request is legitimate and originated from the same application. This helps prevent attackers from tricking users into unknowingly submitting malicious requests.

Here's a basic overview of how AntiForgeryToken works:

1. **Generation:**
   - When a user requests a form that performs a sensitive action (e.g., changing a password, making a financial transaction), the server generates a unique AntiForgeryToken.

2. **Embedding in Form:**
   - The generated token is then embedded in the form as a hidden field. This is typically done using a Razor syntax in ASP.NET MVC or other web frameworks.

   ```html
   <form method="post" action="/ChangePassword">
       @Html.AntiForgeryToken()
       <!-- Other form fields -->
       <input type="submit" value="Change Password" />
   </form>
   ```

3. **Submission:**
   - When the user submits the form, the AntiForgeryToken is included in the HTTP request.

4. **Validation:**
   - On the server side, before processing the form submission, the server validates the AntiForgeryToken. If the token is missing or incorrect, the server rejects the request, considering it potentially malicious.

In ASP.NET MVC, the `@Html.AntiForgeryToken()` method is used to generate the token, and the `[ValidateAntiForgeryToken]` attribute is applied to controller actions to enforce validation.

Example in ASP.NET MVC:

```csharp
[HttpPost]
[ValidateAntiForgeryToken]
public ActionResult ChangePassword(ChangePasswordModel model)
{
    // Process the form submission
    // ...
}
```

It's important to note that AntiForgeryToken alone is not a complete solution for securing web applications. It should be used in conjunction with other security measures, such as proper authentication, authorization checks, and secure coding practices. Additionally, web developers should follow best practices for web security to mitigate various types of attacks.


-------WebApi------
16. When to use WebApi?
Web API (Application Programming Interface) is a framework for building HTTP services that can be consumed by various clients, including web browsers, mobile devices, and desktop applications. Knowing when to use Web API depends on the requirements of your application and the type of interactions you need to support. Here are some scenarios where using Web API is appropriate:

1. **Building RESTful Services:**
   - Web API is well-suited for building RESTful APIs. If you need to expose your application's functionalities over HTTP in a stateless, scalable, and standard way, Web API is a good choice.

2. **Client-Server Architecture:**
   - When you want to implement a client-server architecture where the client and server communicate over standard HTTP protocols. Web API allows for a clear separation between the client and server components.

3. **Cross-Platform Integration:**
   - If you need to enable communication between different platforms and technologies, Web API is a platform-agnostic solution. Clients built with different technologies (e.g., JavaScript, .NET, Java) can easily consume Web API services.

4. **Mobile Application Backends:**
   - When developing mobile applications (iOS, Android, etc.), Web API can serve as the backend service to provide data and functionality to the mobile app. It allows for easy integration with different mobile platforms.

5. **Data Exchange Format:**
   - When you want to use standard data exchange formats like JSON or XML for communication between the client and server. Web API supports content negotiation, allowing clients to request data in their preferred format.

6. **IoT (Internet of Things):**
   - Web API can be used to provide an interface for IoT devices to communicate with the server. It allows for the integration of IoT devices into a larger system.

7. **Microservices Architecture:**
   - In a microservices architecture, where the application is composed of small, independent services, Web API is commonly used for the communication between these services. Each microservice can expose its functionalities through Web API endpoints.

8. **Integration with Third-Party Services:**
   - If your application needs to integrate with third-party services or allow third parties to consume your services, Web API provides a standardized way for communication.

9. **HTTP Verb-based Operations:**
   - When you want to use standard HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) for different operations. Web API supports these HTTP methods, making it RESTful and adhering to the principles of Representational State Transfer (REST).

10. **Asynchronous Operations:**
    - If your application requires support for asynchronous operations, such as long-running tasks or handling a large number of concurrent requests, Web API allows you to implement asynchronous controllers.

In summary, Web API is a suitable choice when you need to expose services over HTTP for various types of clients, support cross-platform integration, follow RESTful principles, and enable communication between different components of a distributed system.


17. What are http verbs?ANS:- verb describe the action
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) verbs, also known as HTTP methods, are standardized request methods used by clients when making requests to web servers. Each HTTP verb represents a specific action or operation that the server should perform on a resource. The HTTP protocol defines several standard verbs, each serving a distinct purpose. Here are some common HTTP verbs:

1. **GET:**
   - **Purpose:** Retrieve data from a specified resource.
   - **Example:** Fetch the details of a user by sending a GET request to `/users/123`.

2. **POST:**
   - **Purpose:** Submit data to be processed to a specified resource.
   - **Example:** Create a new user by sending a POST request to `/users`.

3. **PUT:**
   - **Purpose:** Update a resource or create it if it doesn't exist.
   - **Example:** Update the details of a user by sending a PUT request to `/users/123`.

4. **PATCH:**
   - **Purpose:** Partially update a resource.
   - **Example:** Update specific attributes of a user by sending a PATCH request to `/users/123`.

5. **DELETE:**
   - **Purpose:** Delete a specified resource.
   - **Example:** Delete a user by sending a DELETE request to `/users/123`.

6. **HEAD:**
   - **Purpose:** Retrieve the headers of a resource without the body content.
   - **Example:** Check the availability or freshness of a resource without downloading it.

7. **OPTIONS:**
   - **Purpose:** Get information about the communication options available for a resource.
   - **Example:** Retrieve the supported methods for a resource.

8. **TRACE:**
   - **Purpose:** Echo the received request to the client, used for diagnostic purposes.
   - **Example:** Verify how a request travels through intermediate servers.

9. **CONNECT:**
   - **Purpose:** Establish a tunnel to the server identified by a given URI for a secure connection.
   - **Example:** Used in the establishment of a TLS/SSL tunnel.

These HTTP verbs define the actions that can be performed on a resource. When a client sends a request to a server, the request includes an HTTP verb to indicate the desired action. Servers, in turn, interpret the verb and perform the corresponding operation on the specified resource.

It's important to note that these HTTP verbs are part of the RESTful principles and are widely used in web development to create APIs that adhere to a standardized and predictable interface for communication between clients and servers.


18. What is Attribute routing?
Attribute routing is a feature in ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Core MVC that allows developers to define routes directly on the controller and action methods using attributes (decorators). In traditional routing, routes are typically defined in a centralized configuration file, such as `RouteConfig` in ASP.NET MVC or `Startup.cs` in ASP.NET Core. Attribute routing provides a more declarative and fine-grained way to define routes directly within the code.

In ASP.NET MVC, attribute routing was introduced in MVC 5, and it became a core feature in ASP.NET Core MVC as well. Here's a basic overview of how attribute routing works:

### Attribute Routing in ASP.NET MVC:

1. **Enabling Attribute Routing:**
   - In ASP.NET MVC, attribute routing needs to be enabled in the `RouteConfig.cs` file (typically found in the `App_Start` folder).

   ```csharp
   public class RouteConfig
   {
       public static void RegisterRoutes(RouteCollection routes)
       {
           // Enable attribute routing
           routes.MapMvcAttributeRoutes();

           // Other routes...
       }
   }
   ```

2. **Defining Routes with Attributes:**
   - Controllers and action methods can use attributes to define routes.

   ```csharp
   [Route("products")]
   public class ProductsController : Controller
   {
       [Route("list")]
       public ActionResult List()
       {
           // Action logic...
       }

       [Route("details/{id}")]
       public ActionResult Details(int id)
       {
           // Action logic...
       }
   }
   ```

### Attribute Routing in ASP.NET Core MVC:

1. **Enabling Attribute Routing:**
   - In ASP.NET Core MVC, attribute routing is enabled by default, and there's typically no need to explicitly enable it.

2. **Defining Routes with Attributes:**
   - Controllers and action methods use attributes to define routes, similar to ASP.NET MVC.

   ```csharp
   [Route("products")]
   public class ProductsController : Controller
   {
       [Route("list")]
       public IActionResult List()
       {
           // Action logic...
       }

       [Route("details/{id}")]
       public IActionResult Details(int id)
       {
           // Action logic...
       }
   }
   ```

### Benefits of Attribute Routing:

- **Declarative Syntax:** Attribute routing provides a more declarative syntax for defining routes, making it clear and concise.

- **Fine-Grained Control:** Developers can have fine-grained control over the route patterns for individual actions, allowing for more flexibility.

- **Readability:** Routes are defined directly within the controller and action, making the code more readable and self-contained.

- **Consistency:** Attribute routing is consistent with other attributes in C# (e.g., `[HttpGet]`, `[HttpPost]`), making it familiar to developers.

Attribute routing is especially useful in scenarios where you want to have more control over the routing behavior or when building RESTful APIs where the URL patterns closely align with the resource hierarchy.


19. What is CORS(cross origin resource sharing)?
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a security feature implemented by web browsers to control how web pages in one domain can request and interact with resources hosted on another domain. It is a security mechanism that prevents a web page from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page. CORS allows servers to declare which origins are permitted to access their resources, and browsers enforce these access controls.

The Same-Origin Policy (SOP) is a security measure that restricts web pages from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page. While SOP is essential for preventing various types of attacks, it can be too restrictive for legitimate use cases, such as loading resources from external domains or making cross-origin API requests.

CORS introduces a set of HTTP headers that allow servers to declare which origins are allowed to access their resources. These headers include:

1. **`Access-Control-Allow-Origin`:**
   - Specifies which origins are permitted to access the resource. It can be a specific origin, a comma-separated list of origins, or a wildcard (`*`) indicating that any origin is allowed.

2. **`Access-Control-Allow-Methods`:**
   - Specifies the HTTP methods (e.g., GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) that are allowed when accessing the resource.

3. **`Access-Control-Allow-Headers`:**
   - Specifies the HTTP headers that can be used when making the actual request.

4. **`Access-Control-Allow-Credentials`:**
   - Indicates whether the browser should include credentials (e.g., cookies, HTTP authentication) when making the actual request.

5. **`Access-Control-Expose-Headers`:**
   - Specifies which headers should be exposed to the requesting client.

6. **`Access-Control-Max-Age`:**
   - Specifies how long the results of a preflight request (OPTIONS) can be cached, in seconds.

### CORS Workflow:

1. **Preflight Request (OPTIONS):**
   - Before making a cross-origin request that involves methods other than simple methods (GET, POST, HEAD), the browser sends an HTTP OPTIONS request (preflight request) to the server to check whether the actual request is allowed.

2. **Server's Response:**
   - The server responds to the preflight request with the appropriate CORS headers, indicating whether the actual request is allowed.

3. **Actual Request:**
   - If the server permits the actual request, the browser makes the actual HTTP request.

### Example CORS Headers:

```http
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://allowed-origin.com
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type, Authorization
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
```

### Handling CORS in Server-Side Code:

Server-side frameworks and applications can handle CORS by configuring the appropriate headers. For example, in an ASP.NET Core application, CORS can be configured in the `Startup.cs` file:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddCors(options =>
    {
        options.AddPolicy("AllowSpecificOrigin",
            builder => builder.WithOrigins("https://allowed-origin.com")
                              .AllowAnyHeader()
                              .AllowAnyMethod()
                              .AllowCredentials());
    });
}

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    app.UseCors("AllowSpecificOrigin");

    // Other middleware and configurations...
}
```

CORS is crucial for enabling secure and controlled cross-origin requests in web applications. It helps strike a balance between security and the legitimate need for cross-origin resource sharing in modern web development.


20. What is JWT token vs bearer token?
JSON Web Token (JWT) and Bearer Token are terminologies often associated with authentication and authorization mechanisms, particularly in the context of web applications and APIs. While JWT is a specific type of token, a Bearer Token is a general concept that describes a type of token commonly used for authentication.

### JWT (JSON Web Token):

**Definition:**
- **Format:** JWT is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims between two parties. It is often used for authentication and exchanging information between parties.
- **Structure:** JWTs consist of three parts: Header, Payload, and Signature. These parts are base64-encoded and concatenated with dots (e.g., `xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz`).

**Use Case:**
- **Authentication:** JWTs are commonly used as tokens for authentication. When a user logs in, a JWT is issued by the authentication server and sent to the client. The client includes the JWT in the Authorization header of subsequent requests to access protected resources.

**Example of a JWT Token:**
```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

### Bearer Token:

**Definition:**
- **Type of Token:** Bearer Token is a type of access token that is included in the Authorization header of an HTTP request. The term "Bearer" indicates that the party presenting the token is the owner of the token and is granted access.

**Use Case:**
- **Authentication:** Bearer Tokens are commonly used in OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect for authentication. The client includes the Bearer Token in the Authorization header when making requests to access protected resources.

**Example of a Bearer Token in an HTTP Request:**
```
GET /api/resource HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

### Summary:

- **JWT:** JWT is a specific format for representing claims between two parties. It is commonly used as an authentication token in various scenarios, and it has a specific structure with a header, payload, and signature.

- **Bearer Token:** Bearer Token is a general concept referring to a type of token that is included in the Authorization header of an HTTP request. It indicates that the bearer of the token is granted access to a resource.

In practical terms, JWTs are often used as Bearer Tokens in authentication scenarios, where the client presents the JWT in the Authorization header to access protected resources. The terms are closely related, and a JWT can be used as a type of Bearer Token.


21. How exception is hand is done in webapi?
Handling exceptions in a Web API is crucial to ensure that the API responds appropriately to errors and provides meaningful information to clients. There are several ways to handle exceptions in a Web API, and the chosen approach may depend on the specific requirements of the application. Here are common strategies for handling exceptions in a Web API:

### 1. Global Exception Handling:

#### ASP.NET MVC / Web API (Legacy):

In ASP.NET MVC or legacy versions of ASP.NET Web API, you can use the `Application_Error` event in the `Global.asax` file to catch unhandled exceptions globally.

```csharp
protected void Application_Error(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    Exception exception = Server.GetLastError();
    // Log the exception or perform other global error handling actions
    // Clear the error to allow the request to proceed
    Server.ClearError();
}
```

#### ASP.NET Core:

In ASP.NET Core, you can use middleware for global exception handling. The `UseExceptionHandler` middleware can be added in the `Startup.cs` file.

```csharp
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Home/Error");
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    // Other middleware and configurations...
}
```

### 2. Exception Filters:

#### ASP.NET MVC / Web API (Legacy):

In legacy Web API, you can use exception filters to handle exceptions at the controller or action level.

```csharp
public class CustomExceptionFilterAttribute : ExceptionFilterAttribute
{
    public override void OnException(HttpActionExecutedContext context)
    {
        // Log the exception or perform other error handling actions
        // Set the response status code and content
        context.Response = new HttpResponseMessage(HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError)
        {
            Content = new StringContent("An unexpected error occurred."),
            ReasonPhrase = "Internal Server Error"
        };
    }
}

[CustomExceptionFilter]
public class MyController : ApiController
{
    // Controller actions...
}
```

#### ASP.NET Core:

In ASP.NET Core, you can use exception filters by implementing the `IExceptionFilter` interface.

```csharp
public class CustomExceptionFilter : IExceptionFilter
{
    public void OnException(ExceptionContext context)
    {
        // Log the exception or perform other error handling actions
        // Set the response status code and content
        context.Result = new ContentResult
        {
            Content = "An unexpected error occurred.",
            StatusCode = (int)HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError
        };
        context.ExceptionHandled = true;
    }
}

[ServiceFilter(typeof(CustomExceptionFilter))]
public class MyController : Controller
{
    // Controller actions...
}
```

### 3. Action Result Types:

You can return specific action result types to handle exceptions and provide a consistent format for error responses. For example, returning `BadRequest`, `NotFound`, or a custom `ObjectResult` with error details.

```csharp
public IActionResult MyAction()
{
    try
    {
        // Code that may throw an exception
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        // Log the exception or perform other error handling actions
        return BadRequest("An unexpected error occurred.");
    }

    // Normal response
    return Ok();
}
```

### 4. Exception Middleware:

In ASP.NET Core, you can use custom middleware to handle exceptions globally.

```csharp
public class ExceptionMiddleware
{
    private readonly RequestDelegate next;

    public ExceptionMiddleware(RequestDelegate next)
    {
        this.next = next;
    }

    public async Task Invoke(HttpContext context)
    {
        try
        {
            await next(context);
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            // Log the exception or perform other error handling actions
            context.Response.StatusCode = (int)HttpStatusCode.InternalServerError;
            await context.Response.WriteAsync("An unexpected error occurred.");
        }
    }
}

public static class ExceptionMiddlewareExtensions
{
    public static IApplicationBuilder UseExceptionMiddleware(this IApplicationBuilder builder)
    {
        return builder.UseMiddleware<ExceptionMiddleware>();
    }
}

// In Startup.cs
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    app.UseExceptionMiddleware();
    // Other middleware and configurations...
}
```

These are some common approaches to handle exceptions in a Web API. The chosen method depends on factors such as the ASP.NET version being used, the desired level of customization, and the overall application architecture. It's important to log exceptions for debugging and monitoring purposes while providing meaningful error responses to clients.


-------ADO.net------
22. Difference between connected vs disconnected architecture?
Connected and Disconnected architectures are terms often used in the context of databases and data access in software development. These architectures describe different approaches to interacting with a database and managing data in an application.

### Connected Architecture:

**Definition:**
- In a connected architecture, the application maintains an open connection to the database throughout the duration of a user's session or interaction with the application.
- The connection to the database is established, used to execute commands (e.g., queries, updates), and then explicitly closed when no longer needed.

**Characteristics:**
- The connection is explicitly opened and closed by the application.
- Resources, such as database connections, are held for the duration of the operation.
- Data is fetched and updated directly through the open connection.
- Examples include classic ADO.NET with SqlConnection in .NET or JDBC in Java.

**Advantages:**
- Immediate updates: Changes made to the data are reflected immediately.
- Efficient for short-lived operations.

**Disadvantages:**
- Resource-intensive: Keeping connections open for extended periods can lead to resource exhaustion, especially in scenarios with many concurrent users.
- Limited scalability: May not scale well when the number of concurrent connections increases.

### Disconnected Architecture:

**Definition:**
- In a disconnected architecture, the application connects to the database, retrieves the necessary data, and then disconnects from the database. Subsequent interactions with the data occur locally within the application, without maintaining a continuous connection to the database.

**Characteristics:**
- The connection to the database is opened, data is fetched, and then the connection is closed.
- Data is manipulated locally within the application (e.g., in-memory datasets, objects).
- Changes to the data are staged locally and can be submitted to the database in a batch when needed.

**Advantages:**
- Improved scalability: The application is not constrained by the number of concurrent database connections.
- Reduced resource usage: Resources are released after data retrieval, allowing for better resource management.
- Better offline capabilities: Disconnected architectures are well-suited for scenarios where applications need to work offline.

**Disadvantages:**
- Data synchronization: Applications need mechanisms to synchronize local changes with the database.
- Potentially stale data: Data may become stale if not regularly refreshed from the database.

### Hybrid Approaches:

In practice, many applications use a combination of connected and disconnected architectures based on specific requirements. For example, a web application might use a connected architecture for short-lived interactions and a disconnected architecture (e.g., caching) to enhance performance and reduce load on the database.

The choice between connected and disconnected architectures depends on factors such as application requirements, performance considerations, scalability goals, and the need for real-time data updates. Modern data access frameworks and technologies often provide flexibility to implement both connected and disconnected scenarios based on application needs.

23. What is connection pooling?
Connection pooling is a technique used in software applications to efficiently manage and reuse database connections. The purpose of connection pooling is to reduce the overhead of opening and closing database connections, which can be resource-intensive, especially in scenarios with a large number of database interactions.

Here's how connection pooling typically works:

1. **Connection Creation:**
   - When an application needs to interact with a database, it requests a database connection from the connection pool.

2. **Connection Reuse:**
   - If an available connection exists in the pool, it is reused for the new database interaction instead of creating a new connection from scratch.

3. **Connection Return:**
   - After the database operation is completed, the connection is not immediately closed. Instead, it is returned to the connection pool, making it available for reuse.

4. **Connection Lifecycle Management:**
   - The connection pool manages the lifecycle of connections, ensuring that connections are reused and properly maintained. Connections may be reset (cleared of any previous state) before being reused.

Connection pooling offers several advantages:

- **Performance Improvement:** Opening and closing database connections can be time-consuming. Connection pooling minimizes this overhead by reusing existing connections, leading to faster response times.

- **Resource Efficiency:** Reusing connections reduces the need to create new connections frequently, conserving system resources such as memory and CPU.

- **Scalability:** Connection pooling allows applications to efficiently handle a large number of concurrent users or requests by minimizing the impact of connection creation overhead.

- **Connection Management:** Connection pools often include features for monitoring and managing the health of connections. For example, connections that become stale or experience issues can be automatically removed from the pool.

### Connection Pooling in .NET:

In .NET applications, connection pooling is often managed by the ADO.NET framework for database interactions. When a connection is closed, it is not immediately closed but returned to the connection pool. Subsequent requests for a connection may reuse an existing connection from the pool.

Connection string parameters, such as `Min Pool Size` and `Max Pool Size`, can be configured to control the size of the connection pool. The actual implementation may vary depending on the database provider (e.g., SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle).

Example of a connection string with connection pooling parameters:

```plaintext
Data Source=myServerAddress;Initial Catalog=myDataBase;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;
Min Pool Size=5;Max Pool Size=100;
```

In the example above, the connection pool is configured with a minimum size of 5 connections (`Min Pool Size`) and a maximum size of 100 connections (`Max Pool Size`). The pool dynamically adjusts the number of connections based on demand.


24. What is **maxpoolsize & minPoolSIze**?

In the context of database connection pooling, `Max Pool Size` and `Min Pool Size` are parameters that can be specified in the connection string to control the behavior of the connection pool. These parameters are commonly used in ADO.NET when interacting with databases, and their values dictate the maximum and minimum number of connections that can be maintained in the connection pool.

### Max Pool Size:

- **Definition:** `Max Pool Size` specifies the maximum number of connections that can be added to the connection pool.
- **Default Value:** The default value may vary depending on the database provider and specific ADO.NET driver being used.
- **Purpose:** This parameter helps prevent the connection pool from growing excessively and consuming too many system resources. It sets an upper limit on the number of connections that can be held in the pool.

#### Example:

```plaintext
Max Pool Size=50;
```

In this example, the maximum number of connections in the pool is set to 50. If the pool reaches this limit, additional connection requests may be queued or result in an error, depending on the connection pool implementation and application behavior.

### Min Pool Size:

- **Definition:** `Min Pool Size` specifies the minimum number of connections that should be maintained in the connection pool, even if they are not actively being used.
- **Default Value:** The default value is often zero, meaning that the pool starts with no connections.
- **Purpose:** This parameter helps ensure that a certain number of connections are readily available in the pool to handle initial and sporadic connection requests, reducing the need to frequently open and close connections.

#### Example:

```plaintext
Min Pool Size=5;
```

In this example, the minimum number of connections in the pool is set to 5. Even when there are no active database connections, the pool will maintain at least five idle connections.

### Combined Example:

```plaintext
Data Source=myServerAddress;Initial Catalog=myDataBase;User Id=myUsername;Password=myPassword;
Min Pool Size=5;Max Pool Size=50;
```

In this combined example, the connection string includes both `Min Pool Size` and `Max Pool Size` parameters, setting a minimum of 5 connections and a maximum of 50 connections in the pool.

It's important to choose appropriate values for these parameters based on the expected usage patterns of the application, the capacity of the database server, and the available system resources. Adjusting these parameters can help optimize the performance and resource usage of applications with database connections.


25. Difference between **data reader vs dataset**?
`DataReader` and `DataSet` are both components in ADO.NET, a set of libraries for data access in .NET applications. However, they serve different purposes and have different characteristics. Here's a comparison between `DataReader` and `DataSet`:

### DataReader:

1. **Forward-Only and Read-Only:**
   - **Nature:** The `DataReader` is forward-only and read-only. It allows sequential access to the result set.
   - **Usage:** Suited for scenarios where data needs to be read once in a forward direction without the need for random access.

2. **Connected Architecture:**
   - **Connection:** Requires an open database connection while data is being read. Useful for connected architecture scenarios.
   - **Resource Usage:** Consumes fewer resources compared to `DataSet` as it doesn't store all data in memory.

3. **Lightweight and Fast:**
   - **Performance:** Generally more lightweight and faster than `DataSet` for read-only scenarios.
   - **Memory Usage:** Efficient memory usage, as it reads data row by row.

4. **No In-Memory Storage:**
   - **Storage:** Does not store data in memory; it fetches rows from the database on demand.
   - **Use Case:** Suitable for scenarios with large datasets where in-memory storage is not feasible.

5. **Usage in Data-Read Scenarios:**
   - **Typical Use Case:** Used in scenarios where data is read for display or processing without the need for updates.

6. **No Support for Disconnected Mode:**
   - **Disconnected Mode:** Does not support a disconnected mode. It cannot be used outside the scope of an open connection.

### DataSet:

1. **In-Memory Storage:**
   - **Storage:** The `DataSet` is an in-memory, disconnected representation of data.
   - **Usage:** Suited for scenarios where data needs to be manipulated, cached, or passed between application layers.

2. **Disconnected Architecture:**
   - **Connection:** Does not require an open connection while working with data. Well-suited for disconnected architecture scenarios.
   - **Resource Usage:** Consumes more resources compared to `DataReader` as it stores data in memory.

3. **Supports Relations and Constraints:**
   - **Structure:** Supports multiple tables, relationships between tables, and constraints.
   - **Usage:** Ideal for scenarios involving complex data structures and relationships.

4. **Updates and Changes:**
   - **Updates:** Supports updates, insertions, and deletions of data.
   - **Change Tracking:** Can track changes made to the data, making it easier to update the database.

5. **XML Serialization:**
   - **Serialization:** Can be easily serialized to XML format, making it suitable for data exchange.

6. **Use in Disconnected Scenarios:**
   - **Typical Use Case:** Used when data needs to be cached, manipulated, or transmitted across layers in a disconnected scenario.

7. **More Overhead:**
   - **Performance Overhead:** Generally has more overhead than `DataReader` due to in-memory storage and additional features.

In summary, the choice between `DataReader` and `DataSet` depends on the specific requirements of the application. Use `DataReader` for lightweight, read-only scenarios with large datasets and a connected architecture. Use `DataSet` for scenarios that involve in-memory storage, complex data structures, or updates to the data in a disconnected environment.

26. What is difference between **Copy vs clone** in dataset?\


In the context of the `DataSet` class in ADO.NET, both "Copy" and "Clone" are methods that allow you to create a new `DataSet` based on an existing one. However, they serve slightly different purposes:

### DataSet.Copy:

- **Method:** `Copy` is a method provided by the `DataSet` class.
- **Purpose:** It creates a new `DataSet` with the same structure (tables, relations, and constraints) as the original, but it does not copy the data. The new `DataSet` will have the same schema, but its tables will be empty.
- **Data:** The data in the new `DataSet` is not duplicated from the original; it starts with an empty set of rows.
- **Example:**
  ```csharp
  DataSet originalDataSet = new DataSet();
  // ... Populate originalDataSet with tables and data ...

  DataSet copiedDataSet = originalDataSet.Copy();
  // copiedDataSet has the same structure as originalDataSet, but with empty tables.
  ```

### DataSet.Clone:

- **Method:** `Clone` is another method provided by the `DataSet` class.
- **Purpose:** It creates a new `DataSet` with the same structure and data as the original. Both schema and data are duplicated in the new `DataSet`.
- **Data:** The new `DataSet` is essentially a deep copy of the original, including all tables, rows, and data.
- **Example:**
  ```csharp
  DataSet originalDataSet = new DataSet();
  // ... Populate originalDataSet with tables and data ...

  DataSet clonedDataSet = originalDataSet.Clone();
  // clonedDataSet is a deep copy of originalDataSet, including structure and data.
  ```

### Summary:

- **Copy:** Used when you want to create a new `DataSet` with the same structure but without duplicating the data. It's useful when you need an empty `DataSet` with the same schema as the original.
  
- **Clone:** Used when you want to create a new `DataSet` that is a deep copy of the original, including both structure and data. It's suitable when you need an independent copy of the entire dataset.

Choose between `Copy` and `Clone` based on your specific requirements for working with datasets in your application. If you need a duplicate with empty tables, use `Copy`. If you need a complete duplicate, including data, use `Clone`.



-------SQL-----
27. what is the difference between truncate vs delete?
The terms "truncate" and "delete" are often used in the context of databases, particularly when dealing with database tables. While both operations involve the removal of data from a table, they differ in their mechanisms, behaviors, and consequences.

Here are the key differences between "truncate" and "delete":

Operation:

Truncate: Truncate is a DDL (Data Definition Language) operation. It is used to quickly remove all the rows from a table without logging individual row deletions. Truncate is faster than delete, but it cannot be rolled back.
Delete: Delete is a DML (Data Manipulation Language) operation. It removes rows one at a time and logs individual row deletions. Delete can be rolled back to undo the changes.
Speed:

Truncate: Generally faster than delete because it is a minimally logged operation. Truncate deallocates the data pages, making it more efficient for large-scale removal of data.
Delete: Slower than truncate, especially for large datasets, because it logs each row deletion.
Transaction:

Truncate: Cannot be rolled back. Once a truncate operation is executed, the data is permanently removed from the table, and the operation cannot be undone.
Delete: Can be rolled back within a transaction. Changes made by delete statements can be reverted if a rollback is performed before a commit.
Logging:

Truncate: Generates minimal log entries. It does not log individual row deletions, making it more efficient in terms of logging.
Delete: Logs individual row deletions, making it a fully logged operation. This provides more detailed information for recovery and auditing.
Table Constraints:

Truncate: Cannot be used when the table is referenced by a foreign key constraint or when there are active transactions on the table.
Delete: Can be used in scenarios where there are constraints or active transactions. Delete operations can be more flexible in the presence of complex relationships.
Reset Identity Columns:

Truncate: Resets identity columns to their seed value.
Delete: Does not automatically reset identity columns. If you need to reset identity columns after a delete operation, you need to explicitly handle that.
Example:

sql
Copy code
-- Truncate
TRUNCATE TABLE TableName;

-- Delete all rows
DELETE FROM TableName;
In summary, truncate is a faster, non-logged operation that removes all rows from a table but cannot be rolled back. Delete is a slower, fully logged operation that removes rows one at a time and can be rolled back within a transaction. The choice between truncate and delete depends on the specific requirements of the operation and the characteristics of the database.


28. What is index, how many types of index is present in SQL Server?
In the context of databases, an index is a data structure that improves the speed of data retrieval operations on a database table. Indexes can be compared to the index in the back of a book, which allows you to quickly find information without having to scan the entire book.

In SQL Server, there are several types of indexes, each designed for specific use cases. Here are some common types of indexes in SQL Server:

Clustered Index:

A clustered index determines the physical order of data in a table. Each table can have only one clustered index, and the order of the rows in the table is determined by the key values. Due to its nature, a table with a clustered index is also known as a clustered table.
sql
Copy code
CREATE CLUSTERED INDEX IX_ClusteredIndex
ON TableName (ColumnName);
Non-Clustered Index:

A non-clustered index is a separate structure from the data rows and does not affect their physical order. It provides a way to quickly look up values based on the indexed columns. A table can have multiple non-clustered indexes.
sql
Copy code
CREATE NONCLUSTERED INDEX IX_NonClusteredIndex
ON TableName (ColumnName);
Unique Index:

A unique index ensures that the indexed columns contain unique values, similar to a primary key. It can be applied to both clustered and non-clustered indexes.
sql
Copy code
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX IX_UniqueIndex
ON TableName (ColumnName);
Composite Index:

A composite index involves more than one column. It can include multiple columns to improve the query performance for queries that involve those columns.
sql
Copy code
CREATE NONCLUSTERED INDEX IX_CompositeIndex
ON TableName (Column1, Column2);
Filtered Index:

A filtered index is an index created on a subset of rows in a table. It includes only the rows that meet a certain condition, which can improve query performance for specific queries.
sql
Copy code
CREATE NONCLUSTERED INDEX IX_FilteredIndex
ON TableName (ColumnName)
WHERE Condition;
Spatial Index:

A spatial index is used to improve the performance of queries involving spatial data types, such as geometry or geography.
sql
Copy code
CREATE SPATIAL INDEX IX_SpatialIndex
ON TableName (SpatialColumn);
XML Index:

An XML index is used to improve the performance of queries involving XML data types.
sql
Copy code
CREATE XML INDEX IX_XMLIndex
ON TableName (XMLColumn);
Full-Text Index:

A full-text index is used for efficiently querying large amounts of text data, providing features like searching for words or phrases within a text column.
sql
Copy code
CREATE FULLTEXT INDEX ON TableName (TextColumn);
Each type of index has its own advantages and use cases. The choice of which index to use depends on the specific requirements of the queries executed against the database and the characteristics of the data being indexed. Proper indexing can significantly improve query performance in a database.


29. What is CTE?
CTE stands for Common Table Expression. It is a temporary result set that can be referenced within a SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement. CTEs are defined using the WITH keyword in SQL, and they are particularly useful for simplifying complex queries, making them more readable and maintainable.

The basic syntax for creating a CTE is as follows:

sql
Copy code
WITH cte_name (column1, column2, ...) AS (
    -- CTE query definition
    SELECT column1, column2, ...
    FROM some_table
    WHERE some_condition
)
-- Use the CTE in a main query
SELECT * FROM cte_name;
Here's a breakdown of the components:

WITH: The WITH keyword is used to define a CTE.
cte_name: This is the name assigned to the CTE, and it can be used to reference the CTE within the subsequent query.
(column1, column2, ...): Optional column list that defines the columns in the CTE. It is not required, but specifying it can enhance readability and assist with self-documentation.
AS: The AS keyword introduces the CTE query definition.
SELECT column1, column2, ... FROM some_table WHERE some_condition: This is the actual query that defines the CTE.
Here's a simple example that uses a CTE to calculate the total sales for each product category:

sql
Copy code
WITH CategorySales AS (
    SELECT
        Category,
        SUM(SalesAmount) AS TotalSales
    FROM
        Sales
    GROUP BY
        Category
)
SELECT
    Category,
    TotalSales
FROM
    CategorySales;
In this example, the CTE named CategorySales calculates the total sales for each product category. The main query then selects and displays the results from the CTE.

CTEs are beneficial for:

Readability: They break down complex queries into more manageable and readable parts.
Reuse: CTEs can be referenced multiple times within the same query.
Recursive Queries: CTEs are often used for recursive queries where a query refers to its own output.
It's important to note that the scope of a CTE is limited to the execution of the query in which it is defined. Once the query execution is complete, the CTE ceases to exist.


30. How to use CTE to delete duplicate records?
You can use a Common Table Expression (CTE) in combination with the ROW_NUMBER() window function to identify and delete duplicate records from a table. Here's an example:

Assume you have a table named YourTable with columns ID, ColumnName, and you want to delete duplicate records based on the values in the ColumnName column. The following query demonstrates how to use a CTE to achieve this:

sql
Copy code
WITH CTE AS (
    -- Identify duplicates using ROW_NUMBER()
    SELECT
        ID,
        ColumnName,
        ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY ColumnName ORDER BY ID) AS RowNum
    FROM
        YourTable
)
-- Delete duplicates by selecting only the rows with RowNum = 1
DELETE FROM CTE WHERE RowNum > 1;
Explanation:

The CTE (named CTE in this example) is created to assign a row number (RowNum) to each row based on the values in the ColumnName column. The PARTITION BY ColumnName clause ensures that the row number is reset for each distinct value in the ColumnName column.

The DELETE statement then deletes rows from the CTE where RowNum is greater than 1. This ensures that only duplicate rows (where RowNum is greater than 1) are deleted, leaving only one occurrence of each unique value.

Please note the following:

The ORDER BY clause in the ROW_NUMBER() function helps in determining which record to keep when duplicates are found. In this example, it orders by the ID column, but you can adjust it based on your criteria.
Before executing a DELETE statement, it's a good practice to make a backup or ensure you have a way to recover the data if needed.
Ensure that the condition used in the PARTITION BY clause and the ORDER BY clause appropriately identifies what you consider as a duplicate.
Always exercise caution when performing delete operations, especially on production databases, and make sure you have a backup or a way to roll back changes if necessary.


31. How to create a new table from existing table without copying the data?
In SQL, you can create a new table from an existing table without copying the data by using a SELECT INTO statement. This statement allows you to create a new table and populate it with the structure (columns and data types) of an existing table, but without copying the data.

Here's an example:

sql
Copy code
-- Create a new table (NewTable) from an existing table (ExistingTable)
SELECT *
INTO NewTable
FROM ExistingTable
WHERE 1 = 0;
Explanation:

SELECT * INTO NewTable: This part of the statement creates a new table named NewTable with the same structure as ExistingTable. The * selects all columns from the existing table.

FROM ExistingTable: This specifies the existing table from which you want to copy the structure.

WHERE 1 = 0: Since you don't want to copy any data, the WHERE 1 = 0 condition ensures that no rows are selected from the existing table.

After executing this statement, NewTable will be created with the same structure as ExistingTable, but it won't contain any data.

It's worth noting that this approach is efficient for creating an empty table with the same structure. If you need to create a table with indexes, constraints, or other properties from an existing table, you might need additional statements or tools depending on the database management system you are using. Also, ensure that the new table does not violate any constraints or unique keys that the existing table may have.

Remember to adapt the table and column names based on your specific database schema.


32. What is locking?
Locking in the context of databases refers to a mechanism that restricts access to a particular piece of data or a resource to ensure the consistency and integrity of the data during concurrent transactions. When multiple transactions are trying to access or modify the same data simultaneously, locking helps prevent conflicts and ensures that transactions are executed in a controlled and orderly manner.

There are several types of locks, and the choice of lock type depends on the requirements of the database and the specific transaction being executed. Here are some common types of locks:

Shared Lock (S):

Allows multiple transactions to read a resource concurrently but prevents any of them from writing to it. Shared locks are used when a transaction only needs to read the data and does not intend to modify it.
Exclusive Lock (X):

Prevents any other transactions from acquiring a shared or exclusive lock on a resource. An exclusive lock is used when a transaction needs to modify the data, ensuring that no other transaction can read or write to it simultaneously.
Read Lock (R):

Similar to a shared lock, a read lock allows multiple transactions to read a resource concurrently but prevents any of them from acquiring an exclusive lock and modifying the data.
Write Lock (W):

Similar to an exclusive lock, a write lock prevents any other transactions from acquiring a shared or exclusive lock on a resource. It is used when a transaction intends to write to the data.
Intention Locks (IS, IX):

Intention locks indicate the intent of a transaction to acquire a certain type of lock on a resource. For example, an intention shared (IS) lock indicates an intent to acquire a shared lock later in the transaction.
Deadlock:

A deadlock occurs when two or more transactions are blocked, each waiting for the other to release a lock. Deadlocks can lead to a situation where no transaction can progress, and intervention is required to resolve the deadlock.
Database management systems use locking mechanisms to implement isolation between transactions, ensuring that transactions are executed independently without interfering with each other. However, excessive or inappropriate use of locks can lead to performance issues, and it's crucial to strike a balance between maintaining data consistency and allowing concurrent access for improved system performance.


---------ReactJS----
33. What is **JSX** file?
34. What is different between **class component vs functional component**?
35. What is difference between **state vs prop**?
36. What is pure component?
37. What is higher order component?
38. What is setState?
39. Difference between **super vs super(props)**
40. What is replace state method in component?





41. what is map function in javascript?
The map() function in JavaScript is a method that allows you to iterate over an array and modify its elements using a callback function. It is a very useful function for performing operations on each element of an array and returning a new array with the results.
The syntax for the map() function is as follows:
array.map(callbackFunction)
Use code with caution.
Learn more
Where:
array is the array that you want to iterate over.
callbackFunction is the function that you want to apply to each element of the array.
The callbackFunction takes one argument, which is the current element of the array. It can return any value, which will be used as the corresponding element in the new array.
Here is an example of how to use the map() function to square each element of an array:
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const squaredNumbers = numbers.map(number => number * number);

console.log(squaredNumbers); // [1, 4, 9, 16, 25]
Use code with caution.
Learn more
As you can see, the map() function has created a new array called squaredNumbers that contains the square of each element in the original numbers array.
The map() function is a very powerful and versatile function that can be used for a variety of tasks. It is a good function to be familiar with if you are working with arrays in JavaScript.



-------mphasis----------
42. will the following code work?
```csharp
    public class MyClass
    {
        public int F1()
        {
            try
            {
                // data inconsistency, think what will happen if it
                //return 1 from try and return 0 from finally then what it should return
            }
            catch (Exception e)
            {
                return 1;
            }
            finally
            {
                return 0;
            }
    }


```
43. will the following code work?

```csharp
        public int F2()
        {
            try
            {

            }
            catch (Exception e)
            {
                return 1;
            }
            catch (DivideByZeroException cc)
            {
                return 0;
            }
        }

// Correct Code
using System;
public class HelloWorld
{
    public static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        Console.WriteLine ("Hello Mono World");
        int a = F2();
         Console.WriteLine (a);
    }
    
    public static int F2()
    {
        try
        {

        }
        catch (DivideByZeroException cc)
        {
            return 0;
        }
        catch (Exception e)
        {
            return 1;
        }
        return -1;
    }
}
```
44. will the following code work?
```csharp
    public class MyClassxxx
    {
        int i = 0;
        i="hello world";

    }
```
45. Output of the following program?
```csharp
public class A
{
    static int j = i;
    static int i = 1;
        
    public static void Main()
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"cccc {i}-----{j}");
    }
}
```
46. Can we avoid nested call to call containing class private `constructor`?
47. Sequence of filter execution in MVC?
48. How your handling exceptions in webapi?
49. Explain SOLID principle? 
50. How did you achieve `liskov substitution` in your project
-----------------other------------
51. when can you suggest someone to use EF and WHY?
52. what is the different between `IEnumerable vs IQueryable` when to use what?
53. Do you prefer `SQl or stored procedure`?
54. IF you will gave an option which one you will prefer EF or Ado.net and why?
55. What will be the execution result of the following query?
```csharp
delegate void SomeMethod();

static void Main(string[] args)
{
    List<SomeMethod> delList = new List<SomeMethod>();
    for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
    {
        delList.Add(delegate { Console.WriteLine(i); });
    }

    foreach (var del in delList)
    {
        del();
    }
}
```
56. what is the output of the below code?
```csharp
void F1()
{
    {int i=0;}
    int j=i+1;
    Console.WriteLine($"The number is {j}")
}
```
56. what is the output of the below code?\
    Hints:- string interning
```csharp
string hello = "hello";
string helloWorld = "hello world";
string helloWorld2 = "hello world";
string helloWorld3 = hello + " world";

Console.WriteLine(helloWorld == helloWorld2);
Console.WriteLine(object.ReferenceEquals(helloWorld, helloWorld2));
Console.WriteLine(object.ReferenceEquals(helloWorld, helloWorld3));
``` 
-----preqin----\
57. Write singleton class?
In C#, a singleton class is a class that allows only one instance to be created and provides a global point of access to that instance. Here's an example of implementing a singleton class in C#:

csharp
Copy code
public sealed class Singleton
{
    private static Singleton instance = null;
    private static readonly object lockObject = new object();

    // Private constructor to prevent instantiation outside the class
    private Singleton()
    {
        // Initialization code, if needed
    }

    // Public method to get the instance of the singleton class
    public static Singleton Instance
    {
        get
        {
            // Double-check locking for thread safety
            if (instance == null)
            {
                lock (lockObject)
                {
                    if (instance == null)
                    {
                        instance = new Singleton();
                    }
                }
            }
            return instance;
        }
    }

    // Other methods or properties of the singleton class can be added here
}
Explanation:

The class is marked as sealed to prevent inheritance.
The instance variable holds the single instance of the class, and it is declared as static to ensure that it is shared among all instances of the class.
The lockObject is used for double-check locking to ensure thread safety during the creation of the singleton instance.
The constructor is marked as private to prevent external instantiation of the class.
The Instance property is used to get the instance of the singleton class. If the instance is not yet created, it will create one, ensuring that only one instance is created.
This implementation is thread-safe and ensures that only one instance of the Singleton class is created. However, note that using a singleton pattern should be considered carefully, as it can introduce global state and dependencies that might make the code less modular and harder to test.

https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/csharp/singleton
58. Where you configure your dependency in Aspnetcore?
In ASP.NET Core, dependency injection (DI) is an integral part of the framework, and it allows you to manage and inject dependencies into your application components. Dependency injection in ASP.NET Core is typically configured in the Startup class, which is part of your application. Here's how you can configure dependencies in ASP.NET Core:

Add Services in ConfigureServices method:

Open the Startup.cs file, and inside the ConfigureServices method, you can use the IServiceCollection to register your dependencies.

csharp
Copy code
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Add your services/dependencies here
    services.AddScoped<IMyService, MyService>();
    services.AddTransient<IOtherService, OtherService>();
    
    // ...
}
In this example:

AddScoped: The service is created once per request.
AddTransient: A new instance is created every time the service is requested.
Use Dependency Injection in Controllers or Components:

Once you've registered your services, you can inject them into your controllers, views, or other components. For example, in a controller:

csharp
Copy code
public class MyController : Controller
{
    private readonly IMyService _myService;

    public MyController(IMyService myService)
    {
        _myService = myService;
    }

    // ...
}
ASP.NET Core's runtime will automatically resolve and provide the required dependencies when creating instances of your controllers.

Constructor Injection:

Constructor injection is a common pattern in ASP.NET Core. Dependencies are injected through the constructor of the dependent class, making it clear what the dependencies are and promoting testability.

Configure Services for Other Dependencies:

Besides registering your own services, you might also configure other services or options. This can be done in the ConfigureServices method as well.

csharp
Copy code
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Configure other services or options
    services.AddMvc();
    
    // ...
}
In this example, AddMvc() is used to configure MVC services.

By following these steps in the Startup class, you can manage the dependency injection configuration for your ASP.NET Core application. The framework will take care of injecting the appropriate dependencies into your application components as needed.


59. How .netcore run on multi platform?      
Common Language Runtime (CLR): .NET Core includes a cross-platform runtime called the Common Language Runtime (CLR). This runtime is responsible for executing .NET Core applications. It abstracts away the underlying operating system details, allowing the same code to run on different platforms.

**CoreFX: ** .NET Core includes a set of foundational libraries called CoreFX. These libraries provide essential functionality for .NET Core applications and are also cross-platform. They include components for file I/O, networking, cryptography, and more.

Platform Abstraction Libraries: .NET Core includes libraries that abstract away the differences between operating systems. For example, there are libraries that handle file paths, threading, and other OS-specific features. This abstraction ensures that the same code can be used across different platforms without modification.

NuGet Packages: .NET Core applications can leverage NuGet packages, which are a standardized way of distributing libraries and tools in the .NET ecosystem. NuGet packages can include platform-specific implementations, allowing applications to use the appropriate code for the target platform.

Cross-Platform Development Tools: .NET Core supports a variety of development tools, such as Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, and the command-line interface (CLI). These tools provide a consistent development experience across different operating systems.

Self-Contained Deployments: .NET Core allows you to create self-contained deployments, which include the necessary runtime and libraries. This enables you to deploy .NET Core applications without relying on the presence of a specific version of the .NET Core runtime on the target machine.

Containerization: .NET Core applications can be easily containerized using technologies like Docker. Containers encapsulate the application along with its dependencies, ensuring consistent behavior across different environments.

Overall, these features make .NET Core a versatile framework for building cross-platform applications, allowing developers to write code once and run it on various operating systems like Windows, Linux, and macOS.

60. How do you send status code to client from Aspnetcore web api?
In C#, a singleton class is a class that allows only one instance to be created and provides a global point of access to that instance. Here's an example of implementing a singleton class in C#:

csharp
Copy code
public sealed class Singleton
{
    private static Singleton instance = null;
    private static readonly object lockObject = new object();

    // Private constructor to prevent instantiation outside the class
    private Singleton()
    {
        // Initialization code, if needed
    }

    // Public method to get the instance of the singleton class
    public static Singleton Instance
    {
        get
        {
            // Double-check locking for thread safety
            if (instance == null)
            {
                lock (lockObject)
                {
                    if (instance == null)
                    {
                        instance = new Singleton();
                    }
                }
            }
            return instance;
        }
    }

    // Other methods or properties of the singleton class can be added here
}
Explanation:

The class is marked as sealed to prevent inheritance.
The instance variable holds the single instance of the class, and it is declared as static to ensure that it is shared among all instances of the class.
The lockObject is used for double-check locking to ensure thread safety during the creation of the singleton instance.
The constructor is marked as private to prevent external instantiation of the class.
The Instance property is used to get the instance of the singleton class. If the instance is not yet created, it will create one, ensuring that only one instance is created.
This implementation is thread-safe and ensures that only one instance of the Singleton class is created. However, note that using a singleton pattern should be considered carefully, as it can introduce global state and dependencies that might make the code less modular and harder to test.

User
How do you send status code to client from Aspnetcore web api?
ChatGPT
In ASP.NET Core Web API, you can send HTTP status codes to the client by returning an ActionResult with the appropriate status code. The ControllerBase class provides several methods to return different HTTP status codes. Here are some examples:

Return Status Code Without Data:

csharp
Copy code
[ApiController]
[Route("api/[controller]")]
public class SampleController : ControllerBase
{
    [HttpGet]
    public IActionResult Get()
    {
        // Return 200 OK without any data
        return Ok();
    }

    [HttpPost]
    public IActionResult Post([FromBody] SomeModel model)
    {
        // Return 201 Created with a specific data
        // You can also use CreatedAtAction or CreatedAtRoute
        return Created("uri-to-the-created-resource", model);
    }

    [HttpDelete("{id}")]
    public IActionResult Delete(int id)
    {
        // Return 204 No Content
        return NoContent();
    }

    // Other methods for different status codes
}
Return Status Code with Data:

csharp
Copy code
[HttpGet("{id}")]
public IActionResult GetById(int id)
{
    var data = // get data based on id
    
    if (data == null)
    {
        // Return 404 Not Found
        return NotFound();
    }

    // Return 200 OK with data
    return Ok(data);
}
Custom Status Code with Object Result:

csharp
Copy code
[HttpGet("custom")]
public IActionResult CustomStatusCode()
{
    var customData = // some custom data

    if (customData == null)
    {
        // Return 404 Not Found with a custom error message
        return NotFound(new { Message = "Custom data not found" });
    }

    // Return a custom status code (e.g., 418 I'm a teapot) with data
    return new ObjectResult(customData)
    {
        StatusCode = 418
    };
}
These are just a few examples, and there are many other status codes and result types you can use based on your specific requirements. The ControllerBase class provides methods for common HTTP status codes, and you can create custom responses using ObjectResult or other derived classes.



61. Well AspNetCore web api only support `json & XML` by default, what we need to do if we need a custom format?
In ASP.NET Core Web API, the default supported formats are JSON and XML. However, you can extend the supported formats by implementing a custom formatter for your desired format. Here are the general steps to add support for a custom format:

Create a Custom Formatter:

Create a class that inherits from OutputFormatter and override the CanWriteResult and WriteAsync methods. Here's a simple example for a custom formatter that outputs plain text:

csharp
Copy code
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters;
using Microsoft.Net.Http.Headers;
using System;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

public class PlainTextOutputFormatter : TextOutputFormatter
{
    public PlainTextOutputFormatter()
    {
        SupportedMediaTypes.Add(MediaTypeHeaderValue.Parse("text/plain"));
        SupportedEncodings.Add(Encoding.UTF8);
    }

    public override bool CanWriteResult(OutputFormatterCanWriteContext context)
    {
        // Check if the type is supported for the custom format
        return context.ObjectType == typeof(string);
    }

    public override Task WriteAsync(OutputFormatterWriteContext context)
    {
        var response = context.HttpContext.Response;
        var value = context.Object as string;

        if (value != null)
        {
            return response.WriteAsync(value);
        }

        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
Register the Custom Formatter:

Open the Startup.cs file and add the following code to the ConfigureServices method to register your custom formatter:

csharp
Copy code
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Other service registrations...

    services.AddMvc(options =>
    {
        options.OutputFormatters.Add(new PlainTextOutputFormatter());
    });
}
This code adds your custom formatter to the list of output formatters.

Specify the Format in the Request:

When making a request, you can specify the desired format in the Accept header. For example, if you are using a tool like curl:

bash
Copy code
curl -H "Accept: text/plain" http://your-api-endpoint
The server will respond with the data formatted in plain text.

Now, your ASP.NET Core Web API should support the custom format (in this case, plain text). You can follow a similar approach for other custom formats by creating the corresponding formatters. Keep in mind that if you are dealing with structured data, JSON or XML might be more appropriate, and you may need to handle content negotiation and serialization accordingly.


62. Have you even take part in architect design decisions, can you explain such recent incident where you have suggested some thing?
Scenario:
Imagine a .NET developer working on a project that involves building a web application for a financial services company. The team is discussing how to design the authentication and authorization system to ensure the security and scalability of the application.

Decision Point:
The team is considering whether to implement authentication and authorization using traditional session-based authentication or to adopt token-based authentication using technologies like JSON Web Tokens (JWT).

Developer's Contribution:
The .NET developer, having knowledge of the application requirements and the strengths of different authentication mechanisms, suggests adopting token-based authentication using JWT. Here's the rationale behind the suggestion:

Statelessness and Scalability:

Tokens are stateless, meaning the server does not need to keep track of the user's session. This leads to improved scalability and easier horizontal scaling if the application needs to handle a large number of concurrent users.
Decoupling Frontend and Backend:

Token-based authentication allows for a clear separation between the frontend and backend. The frontend can store the token and send it with each request, providing a more decoupled architecture.
Support for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS):

JWTs can be easily configured to support CORS, allowing the frontend to make requests to the API from a different domain securely.
Reduced Server Load:

Since tokens are self-contained and include user claims, the server can reduce the need for database queries to retrieve user information, leading to improved performance.
Standardized Format:

JWT is an industry-standard, widely supported format, making it easier to integrate with third-party services or APIs that also use token-based authentication.
Outcome:
After a thorough discussion and considering the developer's insights, the team decides to go with token-based authentication using JWT for the web application. This decision aligns with modern security practices, enhances scalability, and promotes a more modular and maintainable architecture.

In real-world scenarios, developers often contribute valuable insights based on their expertise, leading to informed architectural decisions that align with project requirements and industry best practices.


63. How do you handle security in your applications?
As a .NET developer, handling security in applications is a critical aspect of the development process. Here are some common practices and considerations:

Authentication and Authorization:

Use the built-in ASP.NET Core Identity for user authentication and management.
Implement role-based access control (RBAC) or claims-based authorization to control access to different parts of the application.
Consider using IdentityServer for more complex authentication scenarios and single sign-on (SSO).
Secure Password Handling:

Store passwords securely using strong, adaptive hashing algorithms like bcrypt or Argon2.
Enforce password policies such as complexity and expiration.
Data Encryption:

Encrypt sensitive data at rest and in transit.
Utilize HTTPS for secure communication over the web.
Use the System.Security.Cryptography namespace for cryptographic operations.
Input Validation:

Validate and sanitize all input data to prevent common attacks like SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS).
Use parameterized queries and input validation techniques to ensure data integrity.
Security Headers:

Implement security headers in your web application, such as Content Security Policy (CSP) and Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS).
Use the Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers namespace to set HTTP headers.
Logging and Monitoring:

Implement logging to record security-relevant events and activities.
Set up monitoring and alerting systems to detect unusual or suspicious behavior.
Dependency Scanning:

Regularly scan dependencies for known vulnerabilities using tools like OWASP Dependency-Check or similar.
Keep third-party libraries and frameworks updated to the latest secure versions.
Secure Session Management:

Use secure session management practices, including secure session IDs, proper session timeouts, and secure cookie attributes.
Implement anti-CSRF tokens to protect against cross-site request forgery attacks.
Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Protection:

Apply anti-CSRF measures to prevent attackers from executing unauthorized actions on behalf of a user.
Security Headers:

Use security headers, such as Content Security Policy (CSP) and X-Content-Type-Options, to enhance browser security.
Regular Security Audits and Testing:

Conduct regular security audits of your application's codebase.
Perform penetration testing and vulnerability assessments to identify and address potential security weaknesses.
Educate and Train Teams:

Keep development teams updated on secure coding practices.
Conduct security training sessions to raise awareness of potential threats and best practices.
Compliance:

Ensure that your application complies with relevant security and privacy regulations, such as GDPR, HIPAA, or industry-specific standards.
Use Security Libraries:

Leverage security libraries and frameworks like the Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication and OWASP AntiSamy for additional security features.
Remember that security is a holistic and ongoing process. Regularly review and update security measures based on emerging threats and changes in the application landscape. Stay informed about best practices and apply security principles at every stage of the development lifecycle.


64. In DI what is the difference between `AddTransient & AddScoped` life time?
In Dependency Injection (DI) in ASP.NET Core, AddTransient and AddScoped are methods used to register services with different lifetimes. The lifetime of a service defines how long the service instance will be kept in the dependency injection container. Here are the differences between AddTransient and AddScoped:

AddTransient:

Lifetime: Transient services are created each time they are requested. This means a new instance is created for every request for the service.
Usage: Suitable for lightweight, stateless services where a new instance for each request is acceptable, or when the service itself manages its own state.
Example:
csharp
Copy code
services.AddTransient<IMyService, MyService>();
AddScoped:

Lifetime: Scoped services are created once per request within the scope of the request. If a service is requested multiple times within the same HTTP request, the same instance is used.
Usage: Useful for services that have state specific to a particular request. It ensures that the same instance of the service is used throughout the entire processing of a single request.
Example:
csharp
Copy code
services.AddScoped<IMyService, MyService>();
Choosing Between AddTransient and AddScoped:

Transient: Use when the service is lightweight, stateless, and does not maintain any state across method calls. It's suitable for services that are quick to instantiate and don't have dependencies with per-request state.

Scoped: Use when the service has per-request state or when it's essential to share the same instance of a service within the entire processing of an HTTP request. Scoped services are commonly used in the context of handling an HTTP request in a web application.

Choosing the appropriate lifetime is crucial to ensure that your application functions correctly and efficiently. Using the correct lifetime helps manage resources efficiently and ensures that services behave as expected in the context of your application's architecture.

65. How you do Sql performance optimization?
Optimizing SQL performance is crucial for ensuring that database operations are efficient and responsive. Here are some general strategies for SQL performance optimization:

Use Indexing:

Indexes can significantly improve query performance. Analyze query execution plans to identify where indexes can be beneficial.
Avoid over-indexing, as it can impact write performance. Strike a balance between read and write optimization.
Optimize Queries:

Ensure that queries are well-written and optimized. Use the appropriate SQL constructs, avoid unnecessary JOINs, and limit the number of returned columns.
Analyze and understand the execution plans generated by the database engine to identify potential bottlenecks.
*Avoid SELECT :

Instead of selecting all columns using SELECT *, specify only the columns needed. This reduces the amount of data transferred and can improve query performance.
Use Stored Procedures:

Stored procedures can be precompiled and cached, leading to faster execution times compared to ad-hoc queries.
They also enhance code maintainability and security.
Parameterize Queries:

Use parameterized queries or prepared statements to promote plan reuse and reduce the risk of SQL injection attacks.
Parameterization helps the database engine generate more efficient execution plans.
Limit the Use of Cursors:

Cursors can have a negative impact on performance. Whenever possible, use set-based operations instead of cursor-based operations.
Optimize Joins:

Use INNER JOINs instead of OUTER JOINs when possible, as INNER JOINs tend to perform better.
Avoid using too many JOINs in a single query; it can lead to complex execution plans.
Partitioning Tables:

For large tables, consider partitioning based on key columns. This can enhance query performance by reducing the amount of data that needs to be scanned.
Update Statistics:

Regularly update statistics to help the database engine generate accurate execution plans.
Outdated statistics can lead to suboptimal plan choices.
Consider Denormalization:

In some scenarios, denormalizing certain tables can improve query performance by reducing the need for JOIN operations. However, this comes at the cost of increased complexity during data modification operations.
Use Database Performance Tools:

Utilize database-specific performance monitoring and profiling tools to identify slow queries, analyze execution plans, and monitor resource utilization.
Optimize Server Configuration:

Adjust database server configuration settings, such as memory allocation, CPU affinity, and disk configurations, based on the workload and available hardware resources.
Caching:

Implement caching mechanisms for frequently accessed data. This reduces the need to query the database for the same data repeatedly.
Regular Maintenance:

Perform regular database maintenance tasks, such as rebuilding indexes and updating statistics, to keep the database in optimal condition.
Hardware Scaling:

If all other optimizations are insufficient, consider scaling up hardware resources or distributing the database across multiple servers.
Always measure and monitor the impact of optimizations, as the effectiveness may vary based on the specific database, workload, and infrastructure. Performance optimization is an iterative process that requires ongoing analysis and adjustment.


66. What is kestrel server in aspnetcore & why it is used?

Kestrel is the default and lightweight web server that comes with ASP.NET Core. It is a cross-platform server that can run on Windows, Linux, and macOS. Kestrel is specifically designed to be a high-performance, event-driven server for hosting ASP.NET Core web applications.

Key features and reasons why Kestrel is used in ASP.NET Core:

Cross-Platform Compatibility:

Kestrel is designed to be cross-platform, making it suitable for hosting ASP.NET Core applications on various operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and macOS.
High Performance:

Kestrel is built for high performance and is optimized for serving web applications efficiently. It is asynchronous and event-driven, allowing it to handle a large number of simultaneous connections with low resource consumption.
Integration with ASP.NET Core:

Kestrel is the default web server used in conjunction with ASP.NET Core applications. It is tightly integrated with the ASP.NET Core framework and can efficiently host ASP.NET Core web applications.
Integration with Other Servers:

While Kestrel is the default web server, ASP.NET Core applications can also be hosted behind other web servers like IIS (Internet Information Services) or Nginx. Kestrel serves as the internal server handling the application's HTTP requests.
Asynchronous Request Handling:

Kestrel is designed to handle requests asynchronously, which allows it to efficiently manage multiple concurrent connections without blocking threads. This is crucial for scalability and responsiveness in web applications.
Configuration Flexibility:

Kestrel provides a range of configuration options that allow developers to customize its behavior based on the specific requirements of the application. This includes options for thread management, connection limits, and more.
WebSocket Support:

Kestrel supports WebSockets, which enables real-time bidirectional communication between clients and the server. This is beneficial for building applications with real-time features, such as chat applications or live updates.
Self-Hosting:

Kestrel can be used for self-hosting scenarios where an ASP.NET Core application is run without the need for a separate web server like IIS. This is especially useful for microservices and containerized applications.
It's important to note that while Kestrel is powerful and suitable for many scenarios, it may not be ideal for serving static files or handling certain security features. In such cases, it is common to use a reverse proxy server (like Nginx or IIS) in front of Kestrel to handle these tasks. This combination provides a robust and flexible solution for hosting and serving ASP.NET Core applications.





-----------mphasis--------\
67. What is async programming in .net core?
Asynchronous programming in .NET Core involves writing code that can perform non-blocking operations, allowing the application to remain responsive and efficient while waiting for time-consuming tasks, such as I/O operations or network requests, to complete. Asynchronous programming is particularly crucial for building scalable and responsive applications.

In .NET Core, asynchronous programming is commonly achieved using the async and await keywords. Here's a brief overview of key concepts:

async Keyword:

The async keyword is used to define asynchronous methods. An asynchronous method can perform work concurrently with the calling thread, freeing it to do other tasks while the asynchronous operation is in progress.
csharp
Copy code
public async Task MyAsyncMethod()
{
    // Asynchronous operations using await
    await SomeAsyncOperation();
    // Code that continues after the asynchronous operation is complete
}
await Keyword:

The await keyword is used within an async method to indicate where the method can yield control to the calling thread while awaiting the completion of an asynchronous operation.
csharp
Copy code
public async Task<int> GetValueAsync()
{
    int result = await SomeAsyncOperation();
    // Code that continues after the asynchronous operation is complete
    return result;
}
Task and Task<T>:

The Task and Task<T> types represent asynchronous operations. Methods that return Task or Task<T> can be marked as async to enable the use of await.
csharp
Copy code
public async Task PerformAsyncOperation()
{
    // Asynchronous operation
}
Asynchronous I/O Operations:

Asynchronous programming is particularly useful for I/O-bound operations, such as reading from or writing to a file, making network requests, or querying a database. Using asynchronous I/O operations can improve the application's responsiveness and scalability.
csharp
Copy code
public async Task<string> ReadFileAsync(string filePath)
{
    using (StreamReader reader = new StreamReader(filePath))
    {
        // Asynchronously read from the file
        return await reader.ReadToEndAsync();
    }
}
Task.Run for CPU-Bound Operations:

For CPU-bound operations that can be parallelized, the Task.Run method can be used to offload the work to a separate thread pool thread, preventing the main thread from being blocked.
csharp
Copy code
public async Task<int> CalculateSumAsync(int a, int b)
{
    return await Task.Run(() => CalculateSum(a, b));
}
Asynchronous programming in .NET Core is essential for building responsive and scalable applications, especially in scenarios where there is the potential for blocking operations. It allows the application to efficiently handle multiple tasks concurrently without unnecessary waiting, leading to improved performance and a better user experience.


68. Where you configure your routing in .net core?\
69. Given a scenario you need to connect 3 services to aggregate the result and send to the client how would you do that in .net?
To connect three services, aggregate their results, and send the combined result to a client in .NET, you can use the following approach:

Define Service Contracts:

For each service, define service contracts or APIs that specify the expected input parameters and the structure of the response.
Use HttpClient for Service Communication:

Use the HttpClient class to make HTTP requests to each of the three services. The HttpClient class is part of the System.Net.Http namespace and provides a straightforward way to send HTTP requests.
csharp
Copy code
using (HttpClient client = new HttpClient())
{
    // Make HTTP requests to Service 1, Service 2, and Service 3
    HttpResponseMessage response1 = await client.GetAsync("Service1Endpoint");
    HttpResponseMessage response2 = await client.GetAsync("Service2Endpoint");
    HttpResponseMessage response3 = await client.GetAsync("Service3Endpoint");

    // Ensure successful responses before proceeding
    response1.EnsureSuccessStatusCode();
    response2.EnsureSuccessStatusCode();
    response3.EnsureSuccessStatusCode();

    // Parse and aggregate results
    var result1 = await response1.Content.ReadAsAsync<ResultType1>();
    var result2 = await response2.Content.ReadAsAsync<ResultType2>();
    var result3 = await response3.Content.ReadAsAsync<ResultType3>();

    // Aggregate results as needed
    var aggregatedResult = AggregateResults(result1, result2, result3);

    // Return the aggregated result
    return aggregatedResult;
}
Aggregate Results:

Implement the AggregateResults method to combine or process the results from the three services according to your business logic.
csharp
Copy code
private AggregatedResult AggregateResults(ResultType1 result1, ResultType2 result2, ResultType3 result3)
{
    // Implement your aggregation logic here
    // Combine or process the results from the three services

    // Example: Combine into a single result object
    var aggregatedResult = new AggregatedResult
    {
        CombinedData1 = result1.Data1,
        CombinedData2 = result2.Data2,
        CombinedData3 = result3.Data3
    };

    return aggregatedResult;
}
Expose an API Endpoint in Your Application:

In your .NET application, expose an API endpoint that handles the client's request and orchestrates the communication with the three services.
csharp
Copy code
[ApiController]
[Route("api/aggregated")]
public class AggregatedController : ControllerBase
{
    [HttpGet]
    public async Task<IActionResult> GetAggregatedResult()
    {
        // Use the method for service communication and result aggregation
        var aggregatedResult = await AggregateAndFetchResult();

        // Return the aggregated result to the client
        return Ok(aggregatedResult);
    }
}
Handle Errors and Edge Cases:

Implement error handling to deal with potential issues, such as communication errors with the services, invalid responses, or timeouts.
csharp
Copy code
try
{
    // Make HTTP requests and aggregate results
}
catch (HttpRequestException ex)
{
    // Handle communication errors
    return StatusCode(500, "Error communicating with one or more services");
}
catch (Exception ex)
{
    // Handle other exceptions
    return StatusCode(500, "An unexpected error occurred");
}
Testing:

Thoroughly test your solution to ensure that it works as expected in different scenarios, including cases where one or more services may be unavailable or return unexpected results.
Remember to replace the placeholder values such as "Service1Endpoint," "ResultType1," etc., with the actual endpoint URLs, response types, and data structures from your services. Additionally, adapt the aggregation logic to suit your specific requirements.

70. What is swagger?
Swagger is an open-source framework that helps developers design, document, and consume RESTful APIs. It provides a standardized way to describe the structure of an API, including the available endpoints, request and response formats, authentication methods, and other details. Swagger simplifies the API development process by offering tools to generate interactive API documentation and client SDKs.

Key components and features of Swagger include:

Swagger Specification (OpenAPI Specification):

Swagger uses the OpenAPI Specification, which is a standardized format for describing RESTful APIs. The specification is written in JSON or YAML and provides a clear, machine-readable representation of the API's structure.
Interactive API Documentation:

Swagger UI is a web-based tool that generates interactive documentation for APIs based on the Swagger Specification. It allows developers and other stakeholders to explore and test API endpoints directly through a web browser.
Code Generation:

Swagger Codegen is a tool that automatically generates client libraries, server stubs, and API documentation based on the Swagger Specification. This can save development time and ensure consistency between the API documentation and the actual implementation.
API Design Tools:

Swagger provides tools for designing APIs visually. Developers can use Swagger Editor, a web-based tool, to write and edit OpenAPI Specification files in real-time. The editor provides validation, auto-completion, and other features to facilitate API design.
Integration with Frameworks:

Many web frameworks and platforms offer built-in support for Swagger. For example, in the context of ASP.NET Core, there's Swashbuckle, a library that integrates Swagger into the application, generating the Swagger Specification dynamically based on the API controllers and actions.
API Testing:

Swagger UI not only provides documentation but also allows users to send requests to API endpoints directly from the documentation. This can be useful for testing and experimenting with the API without using additional tools.
Standardized Documentation Format:

The Swagger Specification promotes consistency in API documentation across different projects and teams. The standardized format makes it easier for developers to understand, share, and collaborate on APIs.
Versioning and History:

The Swagger Specification supports versioning, allowing API developers to manage changes over time. It provides a history of API versions and helps maintain backward compatibility.
Widely Adopted:

Swagger has gained widespread adoption in the industry, and many API-related tools and frameworks support the Swagger Specification. This broad support makes it a popular choice for API developers and consumers.
By leveraging Swagger, developers can streamline the API development process, improve collaboration between frontend and backend teams, and provide a better experience for API consumers through comprehensive and interactive documentation.


71. SOLID?
SOLID is an acronym representing a set of five design principles for writing maintainable and scalable software. These principles were introduced by Robert C. Martin and are widely used in object-oriented programming to create more modular, flexible, and understandable code. The SOLID principles promote good design practices that contribute to the development of robust and maintainable software systems.

The SOLID principles are:

Single Responsibility Principle (SRP):

A class should have only one reason to change, meaning that it should have only one responsibility or job. This principle encourages designing classes that are focused on doing one thing well.
Open/Closed Principle (OCP):

Software entities (such as classes, modules, and functions) should be open for extension but closed for modification. In other words, the behavior of a module can be extended without modifying its source code. This is typically achieved through the use of interfaces, abstract classes, and polymorphism.
Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP):

Objects of a superclass should be replaceable with objects of a subclass without affecting the correctness of the program. In other words, a derived class should be able to substitute its base class without changing the behavior of the program.
Interface Segregation Principle (ISP):

A class should not be forced to implement interfaces it does not use. This principle suggests breaking down large interfaces into smaller, more specific ones, ensuring that clients only need to be aware of the methods that are relevant to their use case.
Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP):

High-level modules (e.g., business logic) should not depend on low-level modules (e.g., database access). Both should depend on abstractions (e.g., interfaces or abstract classes). Additionally, abstractions should not depend on details; details should depend on abstractions. This principle promotes the use of dependency injection and inversion of control to achieve decoupling between modules.
These SOLID principles aim to guide developers in creating software that is flexible, maintainable, and extensible. By adhering to these principles, developers can build systems that are less prone to bugs, easier to understand, and more adaptable to changes over time. The SOLID principles are foundational concepts in object-oriented design and contribute to the overall goal of creating high-quality and scalable software.





72. Name a design pattern you have used and why?


Tell me about yourself.
I answered — I am Rohit Sharma working in XXXXXX having 3 years of experience and well versed with Microsoft Technologies. I have worked upon the .Net, C#, Ajax, Javascript, Jquery, and SQL Server.

Then he directly jumped to the technical questions.

2. What is Static Class and Can we have the non-static members inside static class ?

I answered — A static class is a class that cannot be instantiated. You can‘t create an object for the static class. In static class static constructor will be called whenever we try to call the method of the static class and it will be called only once.

For e.g. in the below code only staticcheck.a = 1 will call the constructor. Next ling staticcheck.a=2 will not call the contstructor. So, “Hello” will be printed once.


And, We can’t create non static members inside static class. It will give the compile time error. Please see the below image for the error.


3. What is Interface ? When we should go for Interface and when we should go for Abstract Class ?

I answered — Interface is like a contract which means it tell what we have to implement inside the class where we are going to use it.

The only thing it contains are declarations of events, indexers, methods and/or properties.

For e.g. In the below code we have created one interface and it is being inherited by the class interfacecheck. Since, the class is inheriting the interface it has to implement the infeface members in the below example i.e. method.


When we should go for interface or abstract class?

I answered — If we know the implementation will remain same so we can put it inside the abstract class but when we know the implemntation will vary from class to class then we should go for interface. For e.g. In banks the interest rate is different from bank to bank so we should go for interface in that scenraio. ( He seems to be happy with the answer so far;P)

4. What is SOLID principle ?

I answered —

S: Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)

O: Open closed Principle (OSP)

L: Liskov substitution Principle (LSP)

I: Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)

D: Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

( Interviewer was not interested to go into details so just with the names he was happy. But if you want to know in details you can refer here)

5. What is page life cycle in ASP.Net ?

I answered —

It consist of these phases (SILVER)

S — Start
I — Initialize
L — Load
V — Validate
E — Event Handling
R — Render
Start — This is where page properties such as Request, Response, IsPostBack and UICulture are set.
Initialize — In this phase we can access the masterpage and themes. Also, in this phase a Unique ID is set to each control.
Load — In this phase we can set properties for all of the server controls
Validate— In this phase you can check the IsValid property of the controls.
Event Handling — In this events such as Click, IndexChange are applied to controls.
Render — In this page calls Render method for each control and output is finally rendered on the screen.
6. What is the difference between function and Stored procedure ?

( In 90% of SSE interview you will come across this question. So, I was prepared for it.)
I answered —

SP — Stored Procedure can return zero, single or multiple values.

F — Function must return a single value (which may be a scalar or a table).

SP — Stored Procedure can use transaction.

F — Function can’t use transaction.

SP — Stored Procedure can have input/output parameter.

F — Function have only input parameter.

SP — We can call function from Stored Procedure.

F — We can’t call SP from function.

SP — We can’t use SP in SELECT/ WHERE/ HAVING statement.

F — We can use Function in SELECT/ WHERE/ HAVING statement.

7. What is Singleton ?

I answered — It is one of most common design pattern in which we ensure class has only one instance and provides a global point of access to it.

Simple implentation


This implementation is not thread safe ( to know about thread safe read here. ) but again he was ok with this code.

He asked me where I have used it. So, I mentioned I am logging the data into a “.txt” file using Singleton Design Pattern.

8. He also asked me — Have you worked with WCF ?

I politely said No as I have no experience in it.

What is an Object in OOPs?
Objects are runtime entities that have certain properties.

Take, for illustration, a bouquet of Lillies, Roses, and Tulips. Every flower has its unique qualities, such as various shapes, colours, and scents. This is just a collection of objects.

What is a Class in OOPS?
A class is a type of object that governs how it will act and what it will include. In other words, it’s a blueprint or instructions for constructing a specific thing.

Let’s use the same example as before: a bouquet. The class is a bouquet, and the objects are the various varieties of flowers that make up the bouquet. As a result, we can define objects as instances of a class.

What are the four basic principles of OOPs?
The idea of real-world entities as objects is central to object-oriented programming. It binds data to the functions that operate on it, preventing any other section of the code from accessing the data except that function.

Basic Principles of OOPs
OOPs are based on four major principles:

Data encapsulation: This is when data and methods are combined into a single unit called a class. Data encapsulation supports the camouflage and/or coverup of data or info from the outside world or entity.
Data abstraction: Data abstraction is the representation of important properties without their background details.
Inheritance: Inheritance is the process of transferring existing class properties to a new class. The existing class (parent class) is referred to as the base class, while the new derived class is referred to as the subclass (child class). It is beneficial to code reusability.
Polymorphism: Polymorphism states an object’s ability to take on several forms. Method overloading is used to provide compile-time polymorphism in Java, whereas method overriding is used to accomplish run-time polymorphism.
Can we implement multiple inheritances in Java?
Java does not explicitly support multiple inheritances. With the use of an interface, we may achieve multiple inheritances. Multiple interfaces can be incorporated into our program.

How is method overloading different from method overriding?
Method overloading occurs when two methods have the same name but differ in the number of parameters or the type of arguments they accept. Compile-time polymorphism is what it’s called because it happens during the compilation process.

Method overriding refers to the ability to construct subclass and super-class methods with the same name and signatures, with the subclass method taking precedence over the super-class method. Run-time polymorphism is a type of polymorphism that occurs during the execution of a program.

What is a Constructor?
A constructor is a class’s special member function that is called automatically whenever a new instance of the class is created. It has a similar name as the class it goes to.

You get bonus points if you know this. If a programmer does not explicitly define a constructor in the code, the compiler creates one for them automatically. When a programmer constructs a function constructor, whether parameterized or non-parameterized, the compiler does not produce the default constructor.

What do you mean by access specifiers?
Outside of the class, access specifiers are used to define how members (functions and variables) can be accessed. There are 3types of access specifiers: public, private, and protected.

private: Members who are defined as private are only available within the same class and cannot be accessed outside of that class.
public: Members who have declared themselves to be public can be accessed from anywhere.
protected: Members who have been designated as protected cannot be accessible from outside the class unless they are members of a child class. In the context of inheritance, this access specifier is important.
Explain pointers in C++
A pointer is a variable that carries the address of another variable of the same data type. Pointers may be constructed for any data type and user-defined data types such as class, structure, etc. It enables variable passing through address references. For illustration:

int x = 25;
int *ptr = &x;
cout << ptr;

ptr will hold the address of x here. For example, the ptr value is the address of x.
We may get the value stored in the address addressed by ptr by using *ptr (i.e., 25). The *ptr operator is also known as the dereference operator.
Pointers have the following applications:

To point to a variable stored in memory.
Keeping track of the addresses of dynamically allocated memory chunks.
Give examples of data structures in C++.
There are 2 types of data structures in C++; they are as follows: linear and nonlinear.

Linear – data elements are stored in sequence or arrangements. Instance, stack, queue, and linked list.
Non-linear – tree and graph that are not stored sequentially or ordered.
What is inheritance? Name its types.
One of the most significant ideas of OOPs languages is inheritance. We may apply the properties of one class to another via inheritance. The idea of inheritance improves the programming language’s code reusability.

Various types of inheritance are:

Single inheritance
Multi-level inheritance
Hierarchical inheritance
Multiple inheritances
Hybrid inheritance
Multipath inheritance
What is the difference between array and pointer?
An array is a collection of comparable elements with the same data type, whereas a pointer is a variable that points to some data type in memory. Arrays can only contain components of the same data type, but pointers can link to any data type variable.

Questions and Answers on C, C++
What is Preprocessor in C/C++?
Preprocessors are programmes that examine a piece of code before compiling it. Preprocessor programmes, which begin with the # symbol, give preprocessor directives that inform the compiler to preprocess the code before compiling.

Why do we use stdio. h in a program?
“Standard input-output” is abbreviated as “stdio.” As a result, #include is the same as including this standard input-output library in your code. In this fashion, you can use the IO functions accessible via printf and scanf. It’s a pre-processor directive because it’s done before your code is processed.

What is a NULL pointer in C?
A NULL pointer is a pointer that does not refer to any address other than NULL. For instance, int *p=NULL;

What is a pointer on a pointer?
It’s a type of pointer variable that can hold the address of another type of pointer variable. It refers to the data stored in the selected pointer variable twice. For example, int x = 5, *p=&x, **q=&p; As a result, **q can access ‘x’.

What is the difference between the local variables and global variables in C?
Local variable: A local variable is a variable that is declared within the scope of a function or block.

Global variable: A global variable is a variable that is declared inside or within a function or block.

What is the use of return 0?
The main function in most C and C++ applications is type int. Hence it should return an integer value. The application’s “Exit Status” is determined by the return value of the main function. As a result, return 0 is utilized to complete the programmes using the integer return type.

Question and Answers on DBMS and SQL
What is Database Management System?
A database management system (DBMS) is a piece of software that allows you to create and manage databases. The end-user can construct and maintain databases with the help of a database management system (DBMS). The database management system (DBMS) links the end-user/application and the databases.

Enlist different advantages of DBMS.
Database Management System has a long number of benefits, as stated below:

Improved data security
Improved data sharing
Better data integration
Minimized data inconsistency
Improved data access
Improved decision making
Increased end-user productivity
What do you mean by Object-Relational DBMS?
The object-relational database (ORD) is a database management system (DBMS) that combines both an object-oriented and a relational database (RDBMS). ORD’s schemas and query language enable the main components of an object-oriented database model, such as inheritance, classes, and objects.

An object-relational database management system is another name for an object-relational database (ORDBMS).

What is database Schema?
The integrity restrictions placed on a database are a set of formulas (sentences) called the database schema.

What are DDL and DML commands in SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) is a programming language that is used to define data. DDL instructions are used to define database schema, which is to say, to construct and alter the database object structure. CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, and similar commands are examples.
Data Manipulation Language (DML) is a programming language that allows you to manipulate data. To manipulate the data in the database, DML commands are utilized. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are all examples of SQL commands.
Differentiate between TRUNCATE and DELETE commands in SQL.
TRUNCATE	DELETE
It’s used to get rid of all the records in a database table.	It is used to remove one or more records from a database table.

It’s a DDL command (Data Definition Language).	It’s a command in the Data Manipulation Language (DML).
DELETE command is faster.	When compared to the TRUNCATE command, this command is slower.
Because it only works on tables, it can’t be used for indexed views.	It’s possible to use it with indexed views.
Why indexing in SQL is useful?
A SQL index is a quick lookup table that aids in the discovery of frequently searched records. An index is a type of database that is quick, compact, and designed for quick lookups. It’s handy for connecting relational tables, searching huge tables, and quickly retrieving data from a database.

What is the left outer and right outer join in SQL?
Left outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the left table and the records from the right table that have been matched.
Right outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the right table and the records from the left table that are matched.
Joins in SQL
What is the stored procedure?
A stored procedure is a logical unit for a set of statements that may be retrieved by programmes that use an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System). These are saved in the data dictionary of the database. It can be used for data validation as well as access control.

Questions and Answers on Computer Networks and Software Testing
Different between a session and a socket?
The Socket is made up of the IP address and the Port Number. The logical connection between the source and the destination is known as a session.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
TCP	UDP
Connection-orientated protocol	Connectionless protocol
Segment sequencing	No sequencing
Acknowledge sequencing	No windowing and retransmission
Reliable transmission protocol	Unreliable transmission protocol
What is SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)?
SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) is an end-to-end procedure that outlines the software development flow from requirements to maintenance and support. Requirements analysis, planning, definition, design, development, testing, deployment, maintenance, and support are the steps of the SDLC.

SDLC-Software Development Life Cycle
What are the disadvantages of the Waterfall model?
Only after the life cycle is working software developed.
Unsuitable for both complicated and object-oriented programmes.
Measuring development within each step is difficult.
Not recommended for projects with regular requirements that could result in a significant risk of change. As a result, this model carries a significant level of risk and uncertainty. 
Because integration is completed at the end, it is impossible to discover any business or technology bottlenecks or issues early on.
Explain about Agile model.
Agile is a software development paradigm that uses an iterative approach to help teams offer value to their customers faster, with higher quality, fewer errors, and better flexibility in responding to change. Check Agile Methodology here.
Rather than a “big bang” launch, an agile team releases a product in modest increments. Requirements, planning, and outcome evaluation are all done regularly, so teams have a built-in mechanism for responding quickly to change.
The most popular Agile techniques are Scrum and Kanban.
What is DLL and EXE file extension?
The EXE file extension is used for executable files and identifies them as programmes. It is self-contained. An EXE establishes its memory and processing area.

A dynamic link library (DLL) is a collection of functions and procedures that other programmes can use. A variety of programmes can use this DLL. The caller application’s memory and process space will be shared.

Differentiate between white box and black box testing.
White box testing	Black box testing
The tester will completely understand the application’s internal workings.	It is not required that you understand the application’s internal workings.
Developers and testers are in charge of it (QA).	The end-user, developers, and testers are responsible for it.
It takes longer and requires more effort.	It takes a least and minimum of time and effort.
Test data and test cases will be created here by a tester.	External or end-user testing is carried out.
Open box, structural testing, clear box, and code-based testing are all terms used to describe white box testing.	Closed box, functional, and data-driven testing are other terms for black-box testing.
Which is the most popular SDLC model?
The waterfall model is one of them. The other is AGILE, which is gaining popularity because of its continuous iteration process, which is less prone to faults in a production setting.

Conclusion
We hope you find this post on Infosys Interview Questions and Answers to be helpful in your preparation for the Infosys interview.

If a candidate is not chosen, Infosys will not enable him or her to apply again for the next six months, so give it your all to pursue your dream job at Infosys. Remember that while no one can foretell what questions the interviewer will ask, preparation is essential for success in the Infosys interview process. This blog will prove to be helpful for Infosys system engineer interview questions or any other job profile that you want to get in.

Check out Interview Questions and Answers for in-demand domains
Java Interview Questions and Answers Coding Interview Questions and Answers SQL Interview Questions and Answers DevOps Interview Questions and Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the salary for freshers in Infosys?
Freshers’ Average Annual Salary at Infosys is ₹ 3,38,152/year with an estimated take-home salary of ₹ 24,564-₹ 25,983/month.

Can I join Infosys without a degree?
As most of the MNCs require a relevant Bachelor’s degree of 3 or 4 years, so does Infosys. However, Infosys has started making an exception of hiring folks with no degree but relevant knowledge and certification. As long as you have the skill set to do the job, you are welcomed by Infosys in the IT sector.

How should I prepare for Infosys technical interview?
The following knowledge is what Infosys requires you to possess for the technical interview. If you put the utmost effort into your preparation for these areas, you will undoubtedly succeed in the interview.

Programming languages like C, C++, or Java will be the subject of the majority of the questions. You must be certain that you are selecting the appropriate programming language because questions might be posed straight from syntax in this case. 
Basic computer concepts like OOPs, networking, and operating systems are possible question topics. You will also be required to write a program, the major focus of which will be on checking your knowledge of syntax and logic-building capabilities.
A thorough understanding of data structure fundamentals like a stack, linked list, queue, trees, graphs, etc. may come up as well. DSA is an important concept in terms of technical interviews.
You are required to have a solid understanding of database principles like SQL, MongoDB, etc. Here, questions can be posed using both SQL syntax and fundamental relational database concepts.
Is Infosys Interview easy to crack?
The Infosys interview is moderately challenging. You can simply go through all the rounds if you have strong technical and communication skills. You can address any complex questions posed by the interviewer at Infosys if you prepare well for the interview.

Why should we hire you in Infosys?
This, undoubtedly, is the most asked question in almost all companies. If you come across this question, you can answer it like, “I want to pursue a job that reflects my passion and interests because I have discovered that I am great at logic building and an extraordinary coder. I created various softwares during my time in college as part of our curriculum. I want to begin my career with a reputable IT firm, and I am confident that Infosys is the greatest place for me to learn more and have more prospects to advance.”

What is the work culture like at Infosys?
Infosys always maintains a highly welcoming workplace environment. The hierarchy is kept to a minimum, and fresh ideas are freely shared. In essence, Infosys seeks to establish a workspace where politics are reduced to a bare minimum, and the workforce relishes an open work environment.

Infosys has always considered its employees to be its most valuable resource, and it works tirelessly to inspire them by creating a pleasant and stable work environment. Infosys makes sure there is always a healthy work-life balance. On site, recreational and entertainment facilities keep employee productivity and satisfaction high.

How is Infosys interview for experienced?
At Infosys, there are typically two rounds of interviews for experienced candidates: a technical round and an HR round. However, for key positions, you might have to go through two or more rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

Why do you want to join Infosys?
You can answer this question by saying that Infosys is an ideal place for anybody to begin their career and a great place to learn and grow. A career at Infosys offers world-class training, excellent mentors and learning opportunities, fantastic infrastructure and facilities, along with great work culture. 

What is Database Management System?
A database management system (DBMS) is a piece of software that allows you to create and manage databases. The end-user can construct and maintain databases with the help of a database management system (DBMS). The database management system (DBMS) links the end-user/application and the databases.

Enlist different advantages of DBMS.
Database Management System has a long number of benefits, as stated below:

Improved data security
Improved data sharing
Better data integration
Minimized data inconsistency
Improved data access
Improved decision making
Increased end-user productivity
What do you mean by Object-Relational DBMS?
The object-relational database (ORD) is a database management system (DBMS) that combines both an object-oriented and a relational database (RDBMS). ORD’s schemas and query language enable the main components of an object-oriented database model, such as inheritance, classes, and objects.

An object-relational database management system is another name for an object-relational database (ORDBMS).

What is database Schema?
The integrity restrictions placed on a database are a set of formulas (sentences) called the database schema.

What are DDL and DML commands in SQL?
Data Definition Language (DDL) is a programming language that is used to define data. DDL instructions are used to define database schema, which is to say, to construct and alter the database object structure. CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, and similar commands are examples.
Data Manipulation Language (DML) is a programming language that allows you to manipulate data. To manipulate the data in the database, DML commands are utilized. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are all examples of SQL commands.
Differentiate between TRUNCATE and DELETE commands in SQL.
TRUNCATE	DELETE
It’s used to get rid of all the records in a database table.	It is used to remove one or more records from a database table.

It’s a DDL command (Data Definition Language).	It’s a command in the Data Manipulation Language (DML).
DELETE command is faster.	When compared to the TRUNCATE command, this command is slower.
Because it only works on tables, it can’t be used for indexed views.	It’s possible to use it with indexed views.
Why indexing in SQL is useful?
A SQL index is a quick lookup table that aids in the discovery of frequently searched records. An index is a type of database that is quick, compact, and designed for quick lookups. It’s handy for connecting relational tables, searching huge tables, and quickly retrieving data from a database.

What is the left outer and right outer join in SQL?
Left outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the left table and the records from the right table that have been matched.
Right outer join: It returns the whole set of records from the right table and the records from the left table that are matched.
Joins in SQL
What is the stored procedure?
A stored procedure is a logical unit for a set of statements that may be retrieved by programmes that use an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System). These are saved in the data dictionary of the database. It can be used for data validation as well as access control.

Questions and Answers on Computer Networks and Software Testing
Different between a session and a socket?
The Socket is made up of the IP address and the Port Number. The logical connection between the source and the destination is known as a session.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
TCP	UDP
Connection-orientated protocol	Connectionless protocol
Segment sequencing	No sequencing
Acknowledge sequencing	No windowing and retransmission
Reliable transmission protocol	Unreliable transmission protocol
What is SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)?
SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) is an end-to-end procedure that outlines the software development flow from requirements to maintenance and support. Requirements analysis, planning, definition, design, development, testing, deployment, maintenance, and support are the steps of the SDLC.

SDLC-Software Development Life Cycle
What are the disadvantages of the Waterfall model?
Only after the life cycle is working software developed.
Unsuitable for both complicated and object-oriented programmes.
Measuring development within each step is difficult.
Not recommended for projects with regular requirements that could result in a significant risk of change. As a result, this model carries a significant level of risk and uncertainty. 
Because integration is completed at the end, it is impossible to discover any business or technology bottlenecks or issues early on.
Explain about Agile model.
Agile is a software development paradigm that uses an iterative approach to help teams offer value to their customers faster, with higher quality, fewer errors, and better flexibility in responding to change. Check Agile Methodology here.
Rather than a “big bang” launch, an agile team releases a product in modest increments. Requirements, planning, and outcome evaluation are all done regularly, so teams have a built-in mechanism for responding quickly to change.
The most popular Agile techniques are Scrum and Kanban.
What is DLL and EXE file extension?
The EXE file extension is used for executable files and identifies them as programmes. It is self-contained. An EXE establishes its memory and processing area.

A dynamic link library (DLL) is a collection of functions and procedures that other programmes can use. A variety of programmes can use this DLL. The caller application’s memory and process space will be shared.

Differentiate between white box and black box testing.
White box testing	Black box testing
The tester will completely understand the application’s internal workings.	It is not required that you understand the application’s internal workings.
Developers and testers are in charge of it (QA).	The end-user, developers, and testers are responsible for it.
It takes longer and requires more effort.	It takes a least and minimum of time and effort.
Test data and test cases will be created here by a tester.	External or end-user testing is carried out.
Open box, structural testing, clear box, and code-based testing are all terms used to describe white box testing.	Closed box, functional, and data-driven testing are other terms for black-box testing.
Which is the most popular SDLC model?
The waterfall model is one of them. The other is AGILE, which is gaining popularity because of its continuous iteration process, which is less prone to faults in a production setting.

Conclusion
We hope you find this post on Infosys Interview Questions and Answers to be helpful in your preparation for the Infosys interview.

If a candidate is not chosen, Infosys will not enable him or her to apply again for the next six months, so give it your all to pursue your dream job at Infosys. Remember that while no one can foretell what questions the interviewer will ask, preparation is essential for success in the Infosys interview process. This blog will prove to be helpful for Infosys system engineer interview questions or any other job profile that you want to get in.

Check out Interview Questions and Answers for in-demand domains
Java Interview Questions and Answers Coding Interview Questions and Answers SQL Interview Questions and Answers DevOps Interview Questions and Answers
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the salary for freshers in Infosys?
Freshers’ Average Annual Salary at Infosys is ₹ 3,38,152/year with an estimated take-home salary of ₹ 24,564-₹ 25,983/month.

Can I join Infosys without a degree?
As most of the MNCs require a relevant Bachelor’s degree of 3 or 4 years, so does Infosys. However, Infosys has started making an exception of hiring folks with no degree but relevant knowledge and certification. As long as you have the skill set to do the job, you are welcomed by Infosys in the IT sector.

How should I prepare for Infosys technical interview?
The following knowledge is what Infosys requires you to possess for the technical interview. If you put the utmost effort into your preparation for these areas, you will undoubtedly succeed in the interview.

Programming languages like C, C++, or Java will be the subject of the majority of the questions. You must be certain that you are selecting the appropriate programming language because questions might be posed straight from syntax in this case. 
Basic computer concepts like OOPs, networking, and operating systems are possible question topics. You will also be required to write a program, the major focus of which will be on checking your knowledge of syntax and logic-building capabilities.
A thorough understanding of data structure fundamentals like a stack, linked list, queue, trees, graphs, etc. may come up as well. DSA is an important concept in terms of technical interviews.
You are required to have a solid understanding of database principles like SQL, MongoDB, etc. Here, questions can be posed using both SQL syntax and fundamental relational database concepts.
Is Infosys Interview easy to crack?
The Infosys interview is moderately challenging. You can simply go through all the rounds if you have strong technical and communication skills. You can address any complex questions posed by the interviewer at Infosys if you prepare well for the interview.

Why should we hire you in Infosys?
This, undoubtedly, is the most asked question in almost all companies. If you come across this question, you can answer it like, “I want to pursue a job that reflects my passion and interests because I have discovered that I am great at logic building and an extraordinary coder. I created various softwares during my time in college as part of our curriculum. I want to begin my career with a reputable IT firm, and I am confident that Infosys is the greatest place for me to learn more and have more prospects to advance.”

What is the work culture like at Infosys?
Infosys always maintains a highly welcoming workplace environment. The hierarchy is kept to a minimum, and fresh ideas are freely shared. In essence, Infosys seeks to establish a workspace where politics are reduced to a bare minimum, and the workforce relishes an open work environment.

Infosys has always considered its employees to be its most valuable resource, and it works tirelessly to inspire them by creating a pleasant and stable work environment. Infosys makes sure there is always a healthy work-life balance. On site, recreational and entertainment facilities keep employee productivity and satisfaction high.

How is Infosys interview for experienced?
At Infosys, there are typically two rounds of interviews for experienced candidates: a technical round and an HR round. However, for key positions, you might have to go through two or more rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

Why do you want to join Infosys?
You can answer this question by saying that Infosys is an ideal place for anybody to begin their career and a great place to learn and grow. A career at Infosys offers world-class training, excellent mentors and learning opportunities, fantastic infrastructure and facilities, along with great work culture. 

How many rounds are there in Infosys placement?
There are essentially going to be 3 rounds:

Online assessment round
Technical interview round
HR interview round
For experienced candidates as well, the hiring procedure does not change. For some different positions, however, you might need to go through two rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

What is InfyTQ certification?
The InfyTQ certification test evaluates your industry preparedness by assessing your understanding of databases and programming. The best thing about InfyTQ is that, if you pass the test, you can have a direct interview with Infosys for a job.

How do I qualify for InfyTQ?
Following is the eligibility criteria to qualify in InfyTQ:

https://www.mygreatlearning.com/blog/infosys-interview-questions/

1. what is JIT?

JIT is an acronym for the “Just in time” compiler. The native language is utilized to translate the intermediate code. During execution, the intermediate code is transformed into the native language.

2. Describe BCL and its features.

A base class library (BCL) is a collection of classes, interfaces, and value types.
It serves as the basis for all.NET framework programs, elements, and controls.
encapsulates a vast array of frequently used features and makes them readily available to developers.
It offers features including input/output, security, diagnostics, resources, globalization, and threading.
Further performs the function of facilitating user and runtime interaction.
Similarly, it offers namespaces that are frequently used. For example- system, system. Things to do, etc.
3. What precisely is LINQ?

It stands for Language Integrated Query, a feature that was added to Visual Studio 2008. LINQ is a collection of features that adds query functionality to the syntax of the.NET framework and enables data manipulation from any data source. The world of data and the world of objects are connected by LINQ.

Cognizant Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental conditions needed for connection pooling?

Connection pooling needs to meet the following two conditions:

To share a connection and describe the same parameters and security settings, multiple processes are required.
The connection string needs to match exactly.
2. Which adapter should be used to get the data from an Access database?

The data is obtained from an Access database using OleDbDataAdapter.

3. Why do you use the term “AutoPostBack”?

When an event is raised, a property called AutoPostBack is utilized to postback automatically. The control’s AutoPostBack property must be set to True.

Accenture Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental components of OOP?

The fundamental elements of OOP are:

Encapsulation is the process of creating independent modules that link functions that access data with the data itself.

Abstraction: Manages complexity and permits the implementation of additional sophisticated functionality without making it visible to the user object.

Polymorphism: To enable simple integration, the operation is dependent on the context at runtime.

A class can inherit behavior from its parent class and reuse code by creating classes in a hierarchy.

2. How does OOP relate to the.NET Framework?

The term “object-oriented programming” (OOP) is an abbreviation. It is a programming structure that accomplishes the needed functionality without the usage of methods by using independent things known as “objects.” OOP enables.NET programmers to build classes and programs that contain logical modules like methods, properties, fields, and events.

3. What kinds of JIT Compilers are there?

Three categories of JIT Compilers exist:

1.Tell about you?
A formal ice breaking-warm up question. Just tell “Who you are” and “What you do”. Don’t try to detail your life story ,by asking this questions they are expecting you to get tell your professional and education life. Start with little bit of personal details and then dive in to your academic excellence stories and slowly one by one describe about your companies and projects.
2.Talk about your Last project and your role you done?
Just describe about your current project in details and technologies used for it. Then just tell a tast you have done recently.
Interviewer Given me a piece of paper and asked to draw the architect of the project.And also the
3.What is DotNet and compare DotNet versions?
 Asked to compare the versions of .NET. So make sure you have an overall idea about the history of .Net framework and versions.
5.What is String builder ?.What is the advantage and disadvantage ?
Study what is string in C#. Understand its advantage and disadvantages. Then understand what is string builder and study comparing both.
6.Tell about the testing you have done in your project ?. talk about any specific tool you used for testing?
You can tell you have done unit testing. Or you can tell you have done manual testing for your projects. Talk about testing from a developers view.
7.Tell me about the methodology and architecture used in your last project ?
Tell about any design patters used in your previous projects.
8.What is View State ?
Tell about the state management techniques used in Web forms . etc
9.What is boxing and Un-Boxing ,Casting and type conversion?
The operation of Converting a “Value Type”(example :int or float) to a “Reference Type”(example :Object) is called Boxing and the reverse operation is called Unboxing.type Casting or Type Conversion is a mechanism to convert one data type value to another one. Type conversion is possible if both the data types are compatible to each other; otherwise you will get an InvalidCastException.
10.Difference between int and int 32?
Its a confusing question. Best answer is BOTH ARE SAME.
“Int” is a data type keyword defined by the language, C#. Int32 is a data type defined by the .NET Common Type System (CTS). It is mapped to Int32 of FCL type in c#.
Both are signed and takes 32 bits.
11.What is Session and why it is used and compare it with ,Application and cache ?
Since HTTP is stateless ,we use Session object to hold information about one single user, and are available to all pages in one application(across the pages). Common information stored in session variables are name, id, and preferences. The server creates a new Session object for each new user, and destroys the Session object when the session expires.
12.What is Jquery ?Write a small Jquery program?
Query is a very common java-script framework. And i wrote a small basic jquery syntax program.
13.Write SDLC(Software development life cycle ) phases ?
Just start from requirements gathering and start on going. Just understand the entire phased thoroughly.
14.Which SDLC method you followed in your last commercial project ?
You can tell you followed typical water fall model or agile method according your experience.
15.What is Globalization and Localization ?
16. What is XML Serialization in .Net. ?
17.Is Value type variables stored in Stack ?
Yes value type is stored in stack and reference type is stored in Heap.
18.Would you like to ask us any queries or doubts ?
You have to ask something about the company and projects for sure.
Fortunately i got selected for a whoopng package 6.5 Lakhs per annum. So happy to be part of a big company. Best of luck for all who are going to attend the interview

https://intellipaat.com/blog/interview-question/dot-net-interview-questions/

1. What is exactly the .Net framework?
The object-oriented technique is supported by the.NET framework and is used to create Windows programs. It supports a wide range of languages, including C#, VB, Cobol, Perl, and.NET. It contains various functions and tools, including classes, libraries, and APIs, which are used to create, deploy, and run web services and multiple applications.

2. Major components of the.Net framework
dotnet framework

3. What is Common language runtime(CLR)?
The code is executed by this engine, which also offers services that facilitate the development process.

Regardless of the programming language used, the CLR executes applications created for the.NET Framework. CLR is present in every.NET Framework version.

4. Describe a Common type system(CTS)
The CTS standard outlines the categories of data values that can be defined and maintained in runtime memory. it will ensure that programming data defined in various languages interact with one another. For instance, while C# describes as a data type, VB.NET integer is a data type.

Transferring data from a type in one language to its corresponding type in another can be utilized to avoid data loss.

5. state the Common language specification(CLS)
A subset of CTS called Common Language Specification (CLS) outlines a set of guidelines that all languages using the.NET Framework to confirm.

A CLS will support interoperability or cross-language integration. For instance, every programming language supported by the.NET framework (C#, F#, VB.Net, etc.) has its syntax. Therefore, when statements from various languages are performed, the CLS will offer a standard communication and information-sharing platform.

6. Describe .Net Assembly
The main component of the.NET Framework is known as a.NET assembly. In the CLI (Common Language Infrastructure), an assembly is a logical unit of code used for deployment, versioning, and security. Executable (.exe) files and Dynamic Link Libraries (.dll) are the two ways that assembly can be defined.

7. what is Namespace in Dot Net?
It is the group of predefined classes and methods found in the.Net Framework. Through “using a system,” where the system stands in for a namespace while using a keyword, a namespace can be introduced to a.NET program.

8. What do you mean ASP.Net?
Microsoft Corporation’s propitiatory frontend language is called ASP.NET. The term is “Active Server Pages.” The name alone declares that I’m engaged. The client machine will execute the ASP code, which will display the data the server is returning.

9. Explain ASP.Net state management.
State management refers to expressly maintaining the state of a control, web page, data, and user in the application. Because all ASP.NET web applications are stateless by default, every time a page is submitted to the server, the state of controls is lost.

10. Distinguish a function and stored procedure
A process is utilized to carry out specific tasks sequentially. A procedure has many functions. A function returns control and value to the function or code. The calling function or code receives control from a procedure but not any values.

TCS Dot Net Interview Questions
If you are fresher or experienced, this is the right platform to help you start your preparation for the TCS .Net Interview Questions and Answers.

1. what is JIT?
JIT is an acronym for the “Just in time” compiler. The native language is utilized to translate the intermediate code. During execution, the intermediate code is transformed into the native language.

2. Describe BCL and its features.
A base class library (BCL) is a collection of classes, interfaces, and value types.
It serves as the basis for all.NET framework programs, elements, and controls.
Encapsulates a vast array of frequently used features and makes them readily available to developers.
It offers features including input/output, security, diagnostics, resources, globalization, and threading.
Further performs the function of facilitating user and runtime interaction.
Similarly, it offers namespaces that are frequently used. For example- system, system. Things to do, etc.
3. What precisely is LINQ?
It stands for Language Integrated Query, a feature that was added to Visual Studio 2008. LINQ is a collection of features that adds query functionality to the syntax of the.NET framework and enables data manipulation from any data source. The world of data and the world of objects are connected by LINQ.

4. Distinguish MDI and SDI.
An MDI (Many Document Interface) allows you to open multiple windows; it has one parent window and as many child windows as you need. The parent window’s components, such as the menu bar and toolbar, are shared.

Each document is presented in a separate window using the SDI (Single Document Interface) interface. Each window has its features, such as a menu bar and toolbar. It is not limited to the parent window as a result.

5. What is the difference between a stack and a heap?
Stack	Heap
Type of stored value.

Reference type stored.

Every thread in execution is tracked by a stack and its location.

The heap is in charge of maintaining track of the finer-grained items or data.

6. Differentiate localization and globalization.
Globalization	localization
The process of creating software that supports various languages is known as globalization.

To adapt the already globally accessible program to a particular language or culture

Multiple language support can also be added to already existing applications.

Microsoft.Extensions. The program content is localized using localization.

7. List the events in the page life cycle.
The following activities make up the page life cycle:

preInit_page
init_page
initcomplete_page
preLoad_page
load_page
oadcomplete_page
preRender_render
8. What are variables and constants in.NET?
Variable: A variable is a place in the computer’s memory where data is stored and which has a name and a value. Every variable has a data type associated with it that specifies the kind of value that can be placed in it.

Constant: The difference between a constant and a variable is their respective values. A constant’s value cannot be changed once it has been assigned. At the same moment, they are declared, constants must also be initialized.

9. what are tuples in .Net?
A fixed-size collection called a tuple might include components of the same data type or various data types. Like with arrays, the user must specify the size of a tuple when it is declared.

10. How do you check whether a DataReader is closed or opened?
To determine whether a DataReader is open or closed, the “IsClosed” attribute is utilized. If a Data Reader is closed, this property returns a true value; otherwise, a false value is returned.

Accenture Dot Net Interview Questions
1. What are the fundamental components of OOP?
The fundamental elements of OOP are: Encapsulation is the process of creating independent modules that link functions that access data with the data itself.

Abstraction: Manages complexity and permits the implementation of additional sophisticated functionality without making it visible to the user object.

Polymorphism: To enable simple integration, the operation is dependent on the context at runtime. A class can inherit behavior from its parent class and reuse code by creating classes in a hierarchy.

2. How does OOP relate to the.NET Framework?
The term “object-oriented programming” (OOP) is an abbreviation. It is a programming structure that accomplishes the needed functionality without the usage of methods by using independent things known as “objects.” OOP enables.NET programmers to build classes and programs that contain logical modules like methods, properties, fields, and events.

3. What kinds of JIT Compilers are there?
Three categories of JIT Compilers exist:

Pre-JIT compiler: It performs a single compilation cycle, or at the time the application is deployed, to convert all of the source code into machine code.

Normal JIT Compiler: The run-time needed source code methods are converted into machine code and saved in the cache to be invoked later.

Econo JIT Compiler: This compiler is used to compile methods that are only needed at runtime and are not saved for later usage.

4. What does.NET caching do?
The.NET Framework’s caching feature enables data storage in memory for quick access. Making data accessible even when the data source is momentarily unavailable, increases scalability and aids in performance improvement.

5. Distinguish a queue from a stack
The Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) principle is used to process the values in a stack, so all items are added to and removed from the top. But when it comes to both insertion and deletion, a queue lists things according to the FIFO (First-In, First-Out) principle. The elements are added to a queue from the back end and removed from the front end.

6. Distinguish the While and for loops. Give each loop a.NET syntax.
While the While loop is a control flow statement that enables repetitive code execution, the for loop offers a simple approach to writing the loop structure. At the beginning of the for loop, initialization, condition checking, and iteration statements are written; however, at the beginning of the while loop, only initialization and condition checking are completed.

7. Describe Marshaling.
The process of marshaling involves changing types in both managed and unmanaged code.

8. What are the differences between an EXE from a DLL?
Single outbound files known as EXE files are not able to be shared with other apps. DLL files are a type of shareable multiple inbound files.

9. How is ErrorProvider Control used in.NET?
While filling out a data entry form, the end-user is informed of any errors or invalid data using the ErrorProvider control. When entering faulty data, the control’s neighboring display shows the error message that is associated with the error description string.

10. What is Multithreading?
A process that uses many threads to complete various tasks simultaneously is known as multi-threading. Multi-threading is supported by NET in two ways:

Using ThreadStart delegates to start threads
Using asynchronous methods and the ThreadPool class.
11. Describe a PE file.
Portable Executable is referred to as PE. It is an offshoot of Microsoft Common Object File Format (COFF). executable for Windows. The PE file format is used by EXE and DLL files.

There are four sections to it:

EXE or DLL file information is contained in the PE/COFF headers.
CLR header—Contains details regarding CLR and memory administration.
CLR data – Consists of DDL and MSIL metadata produced by compilers.
Native image portion—This component includes sub-sections such as .data, .rdata, .rsrc, and .text.
12. Describe ADO.
ActiveX Data Objects is referred to as ADO. It is a program used to create Windows programs. Access to a relational or non-relational database from database providers like Microsoft and others is obtained using this method.

13. Differentiate a release build and a debug build.
Debug builds are not optimized and permit precise breakpoint settings. While the built-in “Release” mode of the code is optimized for speed or size without any debug data, they contain debugging symbols.

14. What is the difference between the trace class and debug class?
The Debug class is included, and this is when the application is being developed. While being used at the time of application deployment, the call to the Trace class is included in both Debug and Release modes.

15. What Is Hashtable?
Key-value pairs are kept in a collection called a hashtable. To access elements in the collection, it employs the hash codes of each key to organize the pairings.

16. Define Method Overriding.
Using the same name, return type, argument, and calling the same methods from a different class (base class) in the derived class is a process known as method overriding.

17. What are the differences between overriding and shadowing?
Shadowing is used to give the base class method a new implementation and helps guard against future base class alteration. By overriding, you can accomplish polymorphism by rewriting a base class method with a distinct definition.

18. Describe polymorphism.
A single interface with various functionalities is referred to as polymorphic. According to the run-time type of the instance that invokes it, the same method or property can carry out several tasks.

19. What.NET Framework design patterns are there?
1. Factory Method (Creational Design Pattern)
Abstract Factory
A builder.
Prototype
Singleton
Adapter
2. Structural Design Patterns
Bridge
Composite
A decorator
Facade
Flyweight
A proxy
3. Chain of Responsibility Behavioral Design Pattern
Direction
A translator
Iterator
Arbitrator
Memo
The onlooker
State
Plan
Guests
Template Method
20. Write a program to calculate the addition of two numbers.
You must start a brand-new “CalculateSum” ASP.NET Core project. File > New > Project in Visual Studio 2015.

Choose Web in the left pane, then choose ASP.NET Core Web Application (.NET Core) in the middle pane. Click OK after changing the project’s name to “CalculateSum”.

Choose Web Application in the template window, change the Authentication setting to “No Authentication,” and then click OK.

Click Add New Item from the context menu after opening “Solution Explorer” and selecting the folder “Home” (it is located under Views).

To add a page, click the Add button after renaming the MVC View Page Template to “addition. cshtml” in the ASP.NET Section.

Open addition. cshtml and the following code:

@{
    ViewBag.Title = "Addition Page";
    }
    Welcome to Addition Page
    form asp-controller="Home" asp-action="add" method="post"
    span Enter First Number :  input id="Text1" type="text" name="txtFirstNum" 
    span Enter Second Number : input id="Text2" type="text" name="txtSecondNum" 
    input id="Submit1" type="submit" value="Add" 
    form
    @ViewBag.Result
    
    using System;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    namespace CalculateSum.Controllers
    {
    public class HomeController: Controller
    {
    public IActionResult Index()
    {
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult About()
    {
    ViewData["Message"] = "Application description page.";
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult Contact()
    {
    ViewData["Message"] = "Contact page.";
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult Error()
    {
    return View();
    }
    public IActionResult addition()
    {
    return View();
    }
    [HttpPost]
    public IActionResult add()
    {
    int number1 = Convert.ToInt32(HttpContext.Request.Form["txtFirstNum"].ToString());
    int number2 = Convert.ToInt32(HttpContext.Request.Form["txtSecondNum"].ToString());
    int res = number1 + number2;
    ViewBag.Result = res.ToString();
    return View("addition");
    }
    }
    }
    Press Ctrl+F5 to start your program now. This will open a browser and load an ASP.NET Core webpage. After adding /Home/addition to the end of the URL, press enter.
    
Below is the output format:

Dot Net Interview Questions

https://www.btreesystem.com/blog/dot-net-interview-questions/

https://dotnettutorials.net/course/csharp-dot-net-tutorials/

1.) .net framework — DOT NET Framework , CLR ,CTS , dot net program execution flow , intermediate language , managed and unmanaged code , garbage collector ,Assembly DLL EXE in .NET Framework , strong and weak assembly , app domain.

2.) C# — basics , oops , exception handling , delegates , multithreading , collection framework and generic.

3.) SQL — basics ,keys , clauses , operator, joins , indexes ,built in function, store procedure , difference between Store procedure and function,views , Trigger .

4.) Web api —introduction ,http Verb ( get ,post ,put ,delete) , calling web api from jQuery, Routing , security , versioning

5.) Ado.net — introduction , Sqlconnection, Sqlconmand , sqldatareader , sqldataadapater, dataset, datatable , architecture of Ado.net

6.) Entity framework— basics , database first approach .

7.) Asp.net MVC— MVC , routing , html helper, attributes , data annotations, action results , view ,filter , security.

Note — This are the main. Each and every topic contain sub topic . Kindly referred link mentioned above. It helped me a lot. For notes you can contact with me.

program for string reverse(eg:- i am boy -> boy am i)

WHAT IS HTTP 500 Internal Server Error? CAN I SOLVE THIS?

https://www.allinterview.com/company/1111/infosys/interview-questions/25/sql-server.html

1)Declare array with five elements a[]={8,4,6,2,1,10} Print minimum and maximum no from array.

https://www.allinterview.com/company/1111/infosys/interview-questions/18/javascript.html

How .net assemblies are registred as private and shared
assembly ?

Any assembly file (.net dll, .net exe ) is by default is
Private assembly. This means the assembly is visible only to
the application that loads/references it explicitly. Each


application that refers our private assembly will get its
own copy in its assembly.
Shared assembly is the assembly that is registered to the
GAC (Global Assembly Cache) that is part of the .Net
framework installed (under 'windows/assembly' directory) on
a system. We use 'gacutils.exe' binary to register the GAC
such as gacutil -i MyAssembly.exe. All applications those
reference a 'registered global assembly' would use the same

https://www.techtutorial.in/asp-dot-net-interview-questions-and-answers-set-10/

copy of the assembly present in the GAC. Hence it is called
'Shared assembly'.

816232
Write a program. there are 1..n numbers placed in an array in random fashion with one integer missing. find the missing number.
Pre-JIT compiler: It performs a single compilation cycle, or at the time the application is deployed, to convert all of the source code into machine code.
Normal JIT Compiler: The run-time needed source code methods are converted into machine code and saved in the cache to be invoked later.
Econo JIT Compiler: This compiler is used to compile methods that are only needed at runtime and are not saved for later usage.

Graduates from B.E., B. Tech, M.E., M. Tech., M.Sc., MCA, or MCM
Must be an Indian citizen
Minimum 60% marks throughout the academic years
What qualifications and personal skills does Infosys normally look for in freshers?
Academic qualifications and professional achievements are both highly valued by Infosys. Some qualities and skills employers look for in potential candidates, particularly at entry-level positions, include analytical skills, teamwork, and leadership skills, communication skills, and the ability to innovate and create.

How many rounds are there in Infosys placement?
There are essentially going to be 3 rounds:

Online assessment round
Technical interview round
HR interview round
For experienced candidates as well, the hiring procedure does not change. For some different positions, however, you might need to go through two rounds of technical interviews before an HR interview.

What is InfyTQ certification?
The InfyTQ certification test evaluates your industry preparedness by assessing your understanding of databases and programming. The best thing about InfyTQ is that, if you pass the test, you can have a direct interview with Infosys for a job.

How do I qualify for InfyTQ?
Following is the eligibility criteria to qualify in InfyTQ:

Graduates from B.E., B. Tech, M.E., M. Tech., M.Sc., MCA, or MCM
Must be an Indian citizen
Minimum 60% marks throughout the academic years
local and global variable, oops concepts

Job Description
Key Skills
ASP.Net, C#, AWS, Angular JS, Kendo UI, Linq
Hiring Unit
Unit-Engineering services
Qualification
BE, BTech, MCA, MTech, MSc
Location
Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Chennai, Pune
Role Designation
Senior Systems Engineer , Technology Analyst
Job Description
Technical & Professional Requirements
• Required minimum2 years of experience working in .NET, C#, OOP Concepts MVC applications, AWS,• Proficiency with Web Services –Web APIs, REST, WCF, SOAP, TCP/IP,• Familiarity with JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS, React, jQuery /Bootstrap,• Demonstrates a sound understanding of software quality assurance principles, SOLID design principles and modeling methods,• Good to have experience in Azure based web application development involving ADL, ADLS, ADLA, Azure Storage,• Excellent Problem Solving Analytical and Debugging Skills,• Ability to work in team in diverse/ multiple stakeholder environment,• Analytical, Communication and Client Interfacing skills,• Location of posting is driven by business needs.
Responsibilities
• Implement design, development, validation and support activities in line with client needs and architectural requirements.,• Participate in Knowledge Management.,• Ensuring highest levels of service offerings to clients in own technology domain within the guidelines, policies and norms of Infosys
