https://www.turing.com/interview-questions/rest-api

How to prepare for REST API Interview?
Here are some tips to help you prepare for a REST API basic interview questions:

Review the basics of REST APIs: Familiarize yourself with the concepts of REST, such as HTTP verbs, resource naming conventions, and HATEOAS.

Understand the HTTP protocol: Be able to explain the different HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), status codes (e.g. 200, 404), and headers (e.g. Content-Type, Authorization).

Know the differences between REST and other API architectures: Understand the pros and cons of REST compared to other architectures, such as SOAP.

Practice designing and implementing REST APIs: Use online resources or create your own projects to practice designing and building REST APIs using a framework like Express.js or Flask.

Review common security concerns: Understand how to secure a REST API using measures like HTTPS and authentication/authorization.

Practice troubleshooting common issues: Familiarize yourself with common issues that can arise when working with REST APIs, such as CORS errors and debugging HTTP requests.

By preparing these topics, you will be well-equipped to handle questions related to REST APIs in an interview setting.

Here are some of the popular REST API Interview Questions:

Q1. What is a REST API?
A REST API (short for Representational State Transfer Application Programming Interface) is a type of web API that uses HTTP protocol to transfer data between a server and a client. REST APIs are designed to be lightweight and easy to use, making them ideal for building modern, scalable web applications and mobile apps.
In a REST API, resources are represented as URLs and are accessed using HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. The server responds to these requests with appropriate HTTP status codes and, if applicable, a representation of the requested resource in the body of the response.

REST APIs are designed to be stateless, meaning that each request is self-contained and does not rely on information from previous requests. This allows for flexibility and scalability, as it allows clients to connect and disconnect from the API at will without affecting the overall system.

Overall, REST APIs are a popular choice for building web APIs because they are easy to understand and use, and they can be easily consumed by a wide range of clients, including web browsers, mobile apps, and other servers.

Q2. How does a REST API work?
A REST API works by sending HTTP requests to a server and receiving HTTP responses in return. The server is typically a web server that is designed to handle these requests and provide the appropriate response.

Here is a brief overview of how a REST API works:

A client sends an HTTP request to the server, specifying a particular resource and the desired HTTP method (e.g. GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).

The server receives the request and processes it, using the resource and HTTP method specified in the request to determine how to handle the request.

If the request is successful, the server sends an HTTP response back to the client, containing the requested resource (if applicable) and an HTTP status code indicating the status of the request (e.g. 200 for success, 404 for resource not found, etc.).

If the request is unsuccessful, the server sends an HTTP response with an appropriate HTTP error code (e.g. 500 for internal server error) and an error message in the body of the response.

In a REST API, the client and server communicate using the HTTP protocol, which is a standardized set of rules for transferring data over the internet. The client initiates the request and the server responds with an appropriate response, using the HTTP methods and status codes defined in the HTTP specification.

Overall, a REST API works by allowing clients to access and manipulate resources on a server using a set of well-defined operations (e.g. GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) and standard HTTP status codes.

Q3. What is the difference between a REST API and a SOAP API?
REST (Representational State Transfer) and SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) are both web service architectures that are used for building APIs (Application Programming Interfaces). They are both designed to allow different systems to communicate with each other over the internet in a consistent manner. However, they have some important differences that you should consider when choosing which one to use for your API. Here is a comparison of REST and SOAP APIs in tabular format.

Parameter	REST API	SOAP API
Definition	A REST API is a web service that follows the architectural style of REST (Representational State Transfer). It uses HTTP methods to send and receive data from a server and is designed to be lightweight and easy to implement.	A SOAP API (Simple Object Access Protocol) is a standardized protocol for sending and receiving web service requests and responses. It uses XML to encode its messages, which can be sent over a variety of transports such as HTTP, SMTP, and TCP.
Structure	REST APIs are built around the concept of resources, which are represented as URLs. These resources can be manipulated using HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.	SOAP APIs are based on the exchange of XML messages, which are sent using HTTP (or another protocol) and contain a set of instructions called an operation. Each operation specifies the input and output parameters, as well as any error conditions that may occur.
Data format	REST APIs can use any data format, but most commonly use JSON (JavaScript Object Notation).	SOAP APIs use XML to encode data in their messages.
Protocol	REST APIs use HTTP as their primary protocol, but can also use other protocols like HTTPS and FTP.	SOAP APIs use HTTP as their primary protocol, but can also use other protocols like SMTP and TCP.
Security	REST APIs can be secured using a variety of methods, such as HTTP authentication, API keys, and OAuth.	SOAP APIs can be secured using a variety of methods, such as SSL/TLS, WS-Security, and SAML.
Error handling	REST APIs typically use HTTP status codes to indicate success or failure, and may include additional error information in the response body.	SOAP APIs can include error information in the response message, using a specialized element called a fault.
Extensibility	REST APIs are designed to be easily extended, as they do not have a fixed set of operations and can use any HTTP method.	SOAP APIs are more rigid, as they define a fixed set of operations and use a specific XML format for their messages.

Q4. What are the common HTTP methods used in REST APIs?
In REST APIs, HTTP methods are used to indicate the desired action to be performed on a resource. Here are the most common HTTP methods used in REST APIs:

GET: retrieves a representation of a resource's contents. This method is used to retrieve data from a server.

POST: creates a new resource. This method is used to send data to the server, typically to create a new resource.

PUT: updates an existing resource. This method is used to send data to the server, typically to update an existing resource.

DELETE: deletes a resource. This method is used to delete a resource from the server.

PATCH: applies partial modifications to a resource. This method is used to apply partial modifications to a resource, rather than replacing it entirely.

These HTTP methods are defined in the HTTP specification and are used to indicate the desired action to be performed on a resource. They are typically used in the context of REST APIs, which are built around the HTTP protocol and use these methods to indicate the actions that should be performed on resources.

Q5. How do you design a REST API?
To design a REST API, we should follow these guidelines:

Use HTTP methods explicitly: use the appropriate HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) for each action.

Use nouns to represent resources: use nouns to represent the resources in your API, such as "users" or "items".

Use HTTP response codes: use the appropriate HTTP response code to indicate success or failure of an API request.

Use HTTP headers: use HTTP headers to provide additional information about the request or response, such as the content type or authentication information.

Use versioning: include a version number in the URL to allow for backwards compatibility as you make changes to your API.

Use documentation: include documentation with your API to provide details on how to use it, including example requests and responses.

Use HATEOAS (Hypermedia As The Engine Of Application State): include links to relevant resources in the response to allow clients to discover the API and navigate to related resources.

By following these guidelines, you can design a REST API that is easy to use and understand for developers consuming your API.

Q6. What is a resource in a REST API?
In a REST API, a resource is a piece of information that can be accessed by a unique URI (Uniform Resource Identifier). The term "resource" refers to any kind of data or service that can be accessed through the API, such as a user profile, a list of products, or the weather forecast for a particular location.

A resource is typically a representation of a real-world entity, such as a user, a product, or a piece of content. It is often accessed and manipulated using HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.

For example, consider a REST API that allows you to manage users in a system. The API might have a "users" resource that represents the set of all users in the system. You could use the API to create new users by sending a POST request to the "users" resource, retrieve a list of all users by sending a GET request, or delete a user by sending a DELETE request.

In REST APIs, resources are typically accessed and manipulated using URI templates, which are strings that contain placeholders for variables. For example, a URI template for a user resource might look like this: "/users/{id}" where "id" is a placeholder for a unique user identifier.


Q7. What is a RESTful API?
REST (Representational State Transfer) is a software architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating web services. RESTful APIs are APIs that are designed to adhere to the REST constraints.

A RESTful API is an API that follows the REST architecture and uses HTTP methods to perform operations on resources. The REST architecture has six guiding constraints:

Client-server architecture: The client and the server are separated, allowing each to evolve independently.

Statelessness: The server does not store any state about the client sessions in the API.

Cacheability: Clients can cache responses, allowing the API to be more scalable.

Layered system: The API can be used by intermediaries, such as load balancers, proxies, and gateways.

Code on demand: The API can allow clients to execute code in the form of applets or scripts.

Uniform interface: The API should have a uniform interface that allows for the manipulation of resources through a fixed set of operations, such as create, read, update, and delete (CRUD).

RESTful APIs use HTTP methods (such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) to perform operations on resources. The resources are identified using a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), and the actions performed on the resources are determined by the HTTP methods used in the request.

For example, a RESTful API might allow a client to create a new user by sending an HTTP POST request to the URI "api.example.com/users" with the new user's data in the request body. The API would then create the new user and return a response to the client, typically with a status code indicating whether the request was successful.

Q8. What is HATEOAS in a REST API? 
HATEOAS, or Hypermedia As The Engine Of Application State, is a constraint of the REST architectural style that describes the way in which a client interacts with a REST API. It specifies that the API should provide links to resources that allow the client to navigate the API and perform actions.

In a REST API that follows the HATEOAS constraint, the API responses include links to related resources, along with metadata about those resources. The client can then use these links to navigate the API and perform actions, rather than having to hardcode specific resource paths or URLs. This makes the API more flexible and decouples the client from the server, as the client does not need to know the specific structure of the API in advance.

For example, if a client wants to retrieve a list of users from an API, the API response might include a link to a resource that allows the client to retrieve a single user by ID, as well as a link to a resource that allows the client to create a new user. The client can then use these links to perform actions on the API without having to know the exact URLs of these resources in advance.

Overall, HATEOAS is a key principle of the REST architectural style that helps to make APIs more flexible and maintainable by decoupling the client from the server and allowing the client to discover and interact with resources in a self-describing way.

Q9. What is a REST API endpoint?
In a REST API, an endpoint is a specific URL that represents a resource or collection of resources. It is the point at which the API receives requests and returns responses.

For example, an API might have an endpoint for retrieving a list of users, which might be represented by the URL https://api.example.com/users. A client could send a GET request to this endpoint to retrieve a list of users, or a POST request to create a new user.

Endpoints can also include path parameters, which allow the API to return specific resources or collections of resources. For example, an API might have an endpoint for retrieving a single user by ID, which might be represented by the URL https://api.example.com/users/{id}, where {id} is a path parameter representing the ID of the user to retrieve. A client could send a GET request to this endpoint with a specific ID to retrieve a single user, such as https://api.example.com/users/123.

Overall, endpoints are a key component of a REST API and are used to define the resources and actions that the API provides.

Q10. What is a REST API request?
In a REST API, a request is a message sent by a client to the API server to retrieve or modify data, or to perform some other action. The request typically includes a method (also known as an HTTP verb), a resource URL, and possibly a request body containing additional data.

The most common HTTP methods used in REST APIs are:

GET: Used to retrieve a resource or collection of resources.
POST: Used to create a new resource.
PUT: Used to update an existing resource.
DELETE: Used to delete a resource.
Here's an example of a GET request to retrieve a list of users from an API:


GET https://api.example.com/users
And here's an example of a POST request to create a new user:

POST https://api.example.com/users { "name": "John Smith", "email": "john@example.com" } 
In both cases, the request includes the HTTP method (GET or POST), the resource URL (https://api.example.com/users), and, in the case of the POST request, a request body containing the data for the new user.

The API server processes the request and returns a response to the client, typically in the form of a status code and a response body containing the requested data or information about the action taken.

Q11. What is a REST API response?
n a REST API, a response is a message sent by the API server in response to a request from a client. The response typically includes a status code indicating the result of the request, as well as a response body containing the requested data or information about the action taken.

Here's an example of a successful response to a GET request for a list of users:


HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John Smith",
        "email": "john@example.com"
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Jane Doe",
        "email": "jane@example.com"
    }
]
In this example, the response includes a status code of 200 OK, indicating that the request was successful, and a response body containing a JSON array of user objects.

If the request was unsuccessful, the API server might return a different status code, such as 400 Bad Request if the request was invalid, or 404 Not Found if the requested resource was not found. The response might also include a response body containing an error message or additional information about the error.

Overall, the API response is an important part of the communication between a client and an API server, and is used to convey the result of the request and any data or information related to the request.

Q12. What is a REST API header?
In a REST API, headers are pieces of information that are included in the HTTP request or response to provide additional context or information about the request or response. They can be used to specify various types of data, such as the content type of the request or response body, the language of the content, the type of encoding used, and more.

Here's an example of a request header that specifies the content type of the request body

Content-Type: application/json
 

Headers can also be used to pass authentication or authorization information, such as an API key or a user's credentials. For example:

Authorization: Bearer abcdefghijk
 

In this case, the Authorization header is being used to pass an access token that allows the client to access the API.

Headers are an important part of the HTTP protocol and are used to provide additional context or information about the request or response. They are often used in REST APIs to convey information about the request or response that is not conveyed in the URL or body of the request or response.

Q13. What is a REST API body?
In the context of a REST API, the term "body" refers to the information that is sent as the message payload in an HTTP request or response. This information is typically in the form of a JSON object or XML document and is used to convey data to the server or client, depending on the direction of the request.

In an HTTP request, the body can be used to send data to the server as part of the request. For example, when creating a new resource using a POST request, the body of the request may contain the data for the new resource. In an HTTP response, the body can be used to send data back to the client as part of the response.

Here is an example of a POST request to create a new resource, with the body of the request containing the data for the new resource in JSON format:


POST /users HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "name": "John Smith",
  "email": "john@example.com",
  "password": "abc123"
}
In this example, the body of the request contains a JSON object with three properties: "name", "email", and "password". The server will receive this data and use it to create a new user resource in the database.

It is important to note that the body of an HTTP request or response is optional and may not always be present, depending on the specific request or response.

Q14. What is a REST API query parameter?
In the context of a REST API, a query parameter is a component of a request URL that serves to narrow down or filter the resources returned in the response. Query parameters are typically added to the end of the URL and are separated from the base URL by a question mark (?). Each query parameter consists of a name and a value, separated by an equals sign (=). Multiple query parameters can be included in the same URL, and they are separated by an ampersand (&).

For example, consider the following URL for a REST API endpoint that returns a list of products:

https://api.example.com/products
To filter the list of products to only include those with a particular color, you could add a query parameter to the URL like this:

https://api.example.com/products?color=red
This would return only products that are red. You could further narrow down the results by adding additional query parameters:

https://api.example.com/products?color=red&size=large
This would return only large, red products.

Query parameters are often used in REST APIs to allow clients to specify the specific resources they are interested in, or to provide additional context for the server to use when processing the request. They can be used with any HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.), although they are most commonly used with GET requests.

Q15. What is a REST API path parameter?
In a REST API, a path parameter is a variable in the URL path that is used to identify a specific resource. For example, if the API allows you to retrieve a user by ID, the path parameter might be the user's ID. The API might define the path to retrieve a user as follows:

GET /users/{id} 
To retrieve a specific user, you would make a request to the API with the user's ID as the value for the {id} path parameter, like this:

GET /users/123 
This would retrieve the user with an ID of 123.

Path parameters are often used in conjunction with HTTP methods (such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE) to perform different actions on a resource. For example, you might use the GET method to retrieve a resource, the POST method to create a new resource, the PUT method to update an existing resource, and the DELETE method to delete a resource.

Path parameters are a useful way to specify a specific resource in an API and enable you to perform actions on that resource.

Q16. What is a REST API status code?
REST (Representational State Transfer) is a software architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating web services. Web services that conform to the REST architectural style, called RESTful web services, provide interoperability between computer systems on the internet.

A REST API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules that defines how two software programs should interact with each other. When you make a request to a REST API, the server responds with a status code that indicates whether the request was successful or not.

Status codes are three-digit numbers that are grouped into five categories:

Informational (100-199): These status codes indicate that the request has been received and the process is continuing.

Success (200-299): These status codes indicate that the request was successful and the requested information has been returned.

Redirection (300-399): These status codes indicate that the request has been received but further action is needed in order to complete the request.

Client Error (400-499): These status codes indicate that there was an error in the request made by the client.

Server Error (500-599): These status codes indicate that there was an error on the server while processing the request.

Here are some common status codes you might encounter when working with a REST API:

200 OK: This status code indicates that the request was successful and the requested information has been returned.

201 Created: This status code indicates that a new resource has been created as a result of the request.

400 Bad Request: This status code indicates that there was an error in the request made by the client, such as an invalid request format or a missing required parameter.

401 Unauthorized: This status code indicates that the client must authenticate itself to get the requested response.

403 Forbidden: This status code indicates that the client does not have permission to access the requested resource.

404 Not Found: This status code indicates that the requested resource could not be found.

500 Internal Server Error: This status code indicates that there was an error on the server while processing the request.

Q17. What is a REST API error response?
A REST API error response is a response returned by a REST API when an error occurs while processing the request. The error response typically includes an HTTP status code that indicates the type of error that occurred, as well as a message that provides more information about the error.

The structure of an error response can vary depending on the specific REST API you are working with. Some APIs might include additional details about the error in the response body, such as a list of validation errors or a stack trace. Others might include only a minimal amount of information in the response body, such as a simple error message.

Here is an example of a simple error response in JSON format:

{"error":"Invalid request format"}
In this example, the error response includes an HTTP status code of 400 (Bad Request) and an error message that explains the nature of the error.

It's important to note that an error response is not the same as an HTTP error status code. An HTTP error status code indicates that there was an error with the request itself, such as a malformed request or a missing required parameter. An error response, on the other hand, indicates that an error occurred while processing the request, such as a database error or a validation error.

Q18. What is REST API authentication?
REST API authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a client making a request to a REST API. This is typically done to prevent unauthorized access to the API and its resources.

There are several different ways to authenticate a client when making requests to a REST API. Some common approaches include:

API Key: This is a simple authentication method where the client includes a unique API key in the request header or query string. The server verifies the key and, if it is valid, processes the request.

OAuth: This is a widely used authentication method that allows clients to access resources owned by a third-party API on behalf of the resource owner. It involves obtaining an access token from the API, which the client can then include in the request header to authenticate the request.

Basic Authentication: This is a simple authentication method that involves sending the client's username and password in the request header as base64-encoded values.

Token-Based Authentication: This is a method where the client sends a unique token in the request header to authenticate the request. The token is typically generated by the server and issued to the client after the client has provided its credentials and the server has authenticated them.

It's important to note that REST API authentication is separate from the security of the data transmitted by the API. To ensure the security of data transmitted by the API, you should also use secure communication channels such as HTTPS.

Q19. What is a REST API authorization?
REST (Representational State Transfer) is a software architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating web services. Web services that adhere to the REST architectural style are called RESTful APIs.

API authorization refers to the process of determining whether a client is allowed to perform a certain action or access a specific resource. In a RESTful API, authorization is usually implemented using the HTTP authorization header. This header typically consists of an authorization scheme, such as "Basic" or "Bearer," followed by a token, which is usually a long string of characters that represents the client's authorization credentials.

There are many different approaches to API authorization, and the specific method used will depend on the requirements of the API and the needs of the client. Some common approaches include:

Basic authentication: This is a simple authentication scheme that involves sending the client's username and password in the HTTP authorization header. This is not very secure, as the credentials are sent in plain text, so it is generally only used for simple scenarios where security is not a major concern.

Bearer tokens: Bearer tokens are typically used for OAuth2-based API authorization. A bearer token is a long, randomly generated string that represents the client's authorization credentials. The client sends the token in the HTTP authorization header, and the API verifies the token to determine whether the client is authorized to perform the requested action.

API keys: Some APIs use API keys to authenticate clients. An API key is a long, randomly generated string that is assigned to a specific client. The client sends the API key in the HTTP authorization header or as a query parameter in the API request, and the API verifies the key to determine whether the client is authorized to perform the requested action.

Regardless of the specific approach used, the goal of API authorization is to ensure that only authorized clients are able to access the API and perform certain actions. This is important because it helps to protect sensitive data and prevent unauthorized access to resources.

Q20. What is a REST API rate limiting?
REST (REpresentational State Transfer) APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) allow developers to access and manipulate data or services through a set of standard HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) methods, such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, and PATCH. Rate limiting is a technique used to control the amount of traffic that a REST API can handle, by setting limits on the number of requests that a client can make within a specified time frame.

Rate limiting is used to protect the server from being overwhelmed by too many requests at once, and to ensure that all clients have fair access to the API. It helps to prevent abuse and misuse of the API, and can also be used to improve the performance and availability of the service.

There are several ways to implement rate limiting in a REST API. One common approach is to use a token bucket algorithm, which allows a certain number of tokens (representing requests) to be added to the bucket at regular intervals. When a client makes a request to the API, a token is removed from the bucket. If there are no more tokens available, the request is rate limited and the client must wait for more tokens to be added to the bucket before making additional requests.

Other techniques for implementing rate limiting in a REST API include leaky bucket algorithms, fixed window algorithms, and sliding window algorithms. The specific rate-limiting strategy used will depend on the needs and requirements of the API and the clients that are accessing it.

Q21. What is REST API caching?
Caching is a technique used to store frequently-accessed data in a temporary storage location (called a cache) so that it can be quickly retrieved later. In the context of a REST API, caching is used to improve the performance and scalability of the API by reducing the number of requests that the server needs to handle.

There are several ways to implement caching in a REST API, including:

Server-side caching: This involves storing data on the server-side, either in memory or on disk, and serving it to clients directly from the cache when requested.

Client-side caching: This involves storing data on the client-side, either in the browser cache or in a local cache on the client device, and using it to avoid making unnecessary requests to the server.

Edge caching: This involves storing data on a cache server located near the client, so that it can be quickly retrieved without the need to access the server directly.

The specific caching strategy used will depend on the needs and requirements of the API and the clients that are accessing it. Caching can be an effective way to improve the performance and scalability of a REST API, but it is important to carefully consider the trade-offs between caching and freshness of data.

Q22. What is REST API versioning?
API versioning is the practice of releasing multiple versions of an API (Application Programming Interface) to support different clients or to introduce new features and changes to the API.

In the context of a REST API, versioning allows developers to maintain backward compatibility with existing clients while introducing changes and new functionality in a controlled and managed way.

There are several ways to version a REST API, including:

URL versioning: This involves including the version number in the URL of the API, such as https://api.example.com/v1/, https://api.example.com/v2/, etc.

Query parameter versioning: This involves including the version number as a query parameter in the URL of the API, such as https://api.example.com?version=1, https://api.example.com?version=2, etc.

Custom header versioning: This involves using a custom HTTP header, such as X-API-Version, to specify the version of the API that the client is using.

Accept header versioning: This involves using the Accept HTTP header to specify the version of the API that the client is expecting.

The specific versioning strategy used will depend on the needs and requirements of the API and the clients that are accessing it. API versioning is important because it allows developers to make changes and improvements to the API without breaking existing clients, and it helps to ensure that clients are able to access the correct version of the API for their needs.

Q23. What is REST API documentation?
REST (REpresentational State Transfer) API (Application Programming Interface) documentation is a set of written instructions that explains how to use and interact with a REST API. It typically includes information on the following:

The structure and organization of the API, including the various endpoints and resources that are available.

The HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) methods that are supported by the API, such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, and PATCH.

The parameters and payloads that can be passed to the API, including the format and structure of the data.

The responses that the API returns, including the HTTP status codes and any data that is returned.

Any authentication or authorization requirements for accessing the API.

Any error handling or troubleshooting information.

API documentation is an important resource for developers who are building applications that interact with a REST API. It helps them to understand how to use the API and make the most of its functionality. API documentation can be provided in a variety of formats, such as HTML, PDF, or a machine-readable format like Swagger or OpenAPI.

Here are some of the REST API testing interview questions for experienced:

Q24. How do you test a REST API?
There are several ways to test a REST API. Here are some common approaches:

Manually testing the API using a tool such as Postman or cURL. This involves sending requests to the API endpoints and examining the response to verify that the API is functioning as expected.

Automating the testing process using a tool such as SoapUI, which allows you to create a suite of test cases and run them automatically.

Using a unit testing framework such as JUnit or PyTest to write and run automated tests that validate the behavior of individual API functions or methods.

Regardless of the approach you choose, it's important to carefully plan your testing strategy and create a comprehensive set of test cases that cover a wide range of scenarios. This will help ensure that your API is reliable and behaves as expected in different environments and under different conditions.

Q25. What are some best practices for REST API design?
REST (Representational State Transfer) is a popular architectural style for designing APIs. Here are some best practices for designing REST APIs:

Use HTTP verbs (such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) to indicate the intended action for the resource.

Use nouns to refer to resources and use verbs to indicate actions on those resources.

Use plural nouns for resource collections and singular nouns for individual resources.

Use a consistent naming convention, such as camelCase or snake_case, for all API endpoints.

Use HTTP status codes to indicate the result of the API request. For example, use 200 to indicate success and 400 to indicate a bad request.

Use HTTPS to secure communication between the client and the server.

Use pagination to handle large collections of resources, rather than returning all resources in a single response.

Use filtering, sorting, and searching to allow clients to request specific subsets of data.

Use HATEOAS (Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State) to provide clients with links to related resources, rather than hardcoding URLs.

Use versioning to ensure that clients are compatible with the API and to allow for backwards-compatible changes to the API.

Document your API using tools like Swagger or OpenAPI, so that clients can easily understand how to use your API.

By following these best practices, you can design a REST API that is easy to use, maintain, and scale.

Q26.How do you handle errors in a REST API?
There are several ways to handle errors in a REST API. Here are a few common approaches:

Return a standardized error response: One option is to return a standardized error response when an error occurs. This could include an HTTP error code (e.g. 4xx or 5xx) and a message describing the error. For example, a 404 Not Found error could be returned if the requested resource was not found.

Use different HTTP error codes for different types of errors: Another option is to use different HTTP error codes for different types of errors. For example, a 400 Bad Request error could be returned if the request is invalid, a 401 Unauthorized error could be returned if the user is not authenticated, and a 500 Internal Server Error could be returned if there is an issue with the server.

Return a detailed error response: In addition to returning an HTTP error code, you can also return a detailed error response that includes more information about the error. This can be helpful for debugging and for providing more context to the client about what went wrong.

Log errors: It's also a good idea to log errors that occur in your API so that you can track them and identify any patterns or issues that need to be addressed. This can be especially important in production environments where errors may not be immediately apparent to users.

Test error handling: As with any other aspect of your API, it's important to thoroughly test error handling to ensure that it is working as expected and that appropriate error responses are being returned. This can help to ensure that your API is reliable and easy to use for clients.

Q27.How do you version a REST API?
There are several ways to version a REST API. Here are a few common approaches:

URL path prefix: This approach involves adding a version number as a prefix to the API's URL path. For example, the URL for version 1 of the API might be "http://example.com/v1/resource" while the URL for version 2 might be "http://example.com/v2/resource".

Accept header: With this approach, the API version is specified using the "Accept" header in the HTTP request. For example, a client might specify "Accept: application/vnd.example-v2+json" to request version 2 of the API.

Custom header: Similar to the Accept header approach, this approach involves using a custom HTTP header to specify the API version. For example, the client might include a header like "X-API-Version: 2" in the request.

Query parameter: In this approach, the API version is specified as a query parameter in the URL. For example, the URL for version 2 of the API might be "http://example.com/resource?v=2".

It's important to note that whichever approach you choose, it's best to include versioning information in a way that is transparent to the client. This helps ensure that clients don't need to change their code when new versions of the API are released.

Q28.How do you secure a REST API?
There are several ways to secure a REST API, including the following:

Authentication: One common approach is to use some form of authentication to verify the identity of the client making the API request. This can be done using basic authentication, API keys, OAuth, or other methods.

HTTPS: It's important to use HTTPS (HTTP over TLS) to encrypt all communication between the client and the API. This helps protect sensitive data from being intercepted by attackers.

Rate limiting: Implementing rate limiting can help prevent denial of service attacks and other types of abuse by limiting the number of API requests that a client can make in a given time period.

Input validation: Validating user input can help prevent malicious requests from reaching the API. This can be done using techniques like sanitization and whitelisting.

Access control: You can use access control mechanisms like roles and permissions to restrict access to certain API resources or actions to only authorized clients.

Security testing: Regularly testing the API for vulnerabilities using tools like static code analysis, dynamic testing, and penetration testing can help identify and fix potential security issues.

It's important to keep in mind that no single approach is foolproof and that it's generally best to use a combination of these techniques to secure your API.

Q29.How do you handle long-running processes in a REST API?
There are a few different approaches you can take to handle long-running processes in a REST API:

Asynchronous processing: One approach is to use asynchronous processing to run the long-running process in the background, separate from the main request-response cycle. This allows the API to immediately return a response to the client, acknowledging that the request has been received and the process has been initiated. The client can then poll the API periodically to check the status of the process and retrieve the results when they are available.

Server-sent events: Another approach is to use server-sent events to stream updates to the client as the long-running process progresses. This allows the client to receive real-time updates on the status of the process without having to poll the API.

Webhooks: You can also use webhooks to notify the client when the long-running process has completed. The client can specify a URL to which the API can send a notification when the process is finished, allowing the client to retrieve the results without having to poll the API.

Long-polling: Finally, you can use a technique called long-polling to hold the request open until the long-running process is complete. This allows the client to receive a response as soon as the process finishes, without having to poll the API or use server-sent events. However, this approach can be less efficient than the other options, as it requires the server to maintain a connection to the client for the duration of the process.

Q30.How do you handle file uploads in a REST API?
To handle file uploads in a REST API, you can use the multipart/form-data media type, which is used for submitting binary data, such as a file.

Here's an example of how you can use multipart/form-data to handle file uploads in a REST API:

Make a POST request to the API endpoint, and include the Content-Type: multipart/form-data header in the request.

In the request body, include the binary file data and any other form fields as multipart/form-data parts. Each part should have a Content-Disposition header that specifies the name of the field and the file name, if applicable.

The server can then process the request and handle the file upload by saving the file to a desired location and storing any additional form fields in a database or other persistent storage.

For example, using the curl command-line tool, you can make a file upload request like this:

curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" -F "file=@/path/to/file.jpg"http://example.com/api/upload
This would send a POST request to the /api/upload endpoint with the contents of the file.jpg file included as a multipart/form-data part. The server could then process the request and handle the file upload.

It's also worth noting that you can use various libraries and frameworks to make it easier to handle file uploads in your REST API. For example, you can use the multer middleware in Node.js with the Express framework to handle file uploads.

Q31.How do you handle pagination in a REST API?
Pagination is a way to split large result sets into smaller chunks, or pages, that can be more easily consumed by a client. There are a few different ways to implement pagination in a REST API, but one common approach is to use query parameters to specify the page number and size.

For example, you might use a URL like this to request the second page of a list of users, with a page size of 10:

GET /users?page=2&page_size=10 
The server would then return a response containing the appropriate subset of the total results, along with metadata about the total number of pages and the total number of results. The client could use this information to provide navigation controls, such as previous and next buttons, for paginating through the results.

Here's an example of a JSON response from the server that includes pagination metadata:

{"data":[{"id":1,"name":"Alice"},{"id":2,"name":"Bob"}, ... ],"page":2,"page_size":10,"total_pages":5,"total_results":50}
In this example, the data field contains the current page of results, the page field specifies the current page number, the page_size field specifies the number of results per page, the total_pages field specifies the total number of pages, and the total_results field specifies the total number of results.

It's important to note that the specific implementation details of pagination will vary depending on your API design and the needs of your clients. There are many other approaches to pagination that you might consider, such as using HTTP headers or response codes to indicate the presence of additional pages, or using a cursor-based approach to allow the client to retrieve the next set of results.

Q32.How do you handle filtering in a REST API?
Filtering is a way to narrow down a large result set based on specific criteria. There are a few different ways to implement filtering in a REST API, but one common approach is to use query parameters to specify the filters.

For example, you might use a URL like this to request a list of users who have a specific name:

GET /users?name=Alice 
The server would then return a response containing only the users that match the specified filter.

You can also use multiple filters at the same time by using multiple query parameters. For example:

GET /users?name=Alice&age=30 
This would return a list of users who have the name "Alice" and are 30 years old.

It's important to note that the specific implementation details of filtering will vary depending on your API design and the needs of your clients. You might also consider using HTTP headers or request bodies to pass filtering criteria, or using a more structured approach such as the OData query language.

Q33.How do you handle sorting in a REST API?
In a REST API, sorting is typically accomplished by allowing the client to pass specific parameters in the query string of the request. For example, let's say you have an endpoint that returns a list of users and you want to allow the client to sort the list by the user's last name. You could do this by adding a sort parameter to the query string of the request that takes a value of either asc for ascending order or desc for descending order.

Here's an example of how the request might look using the query string:

GET /users?sort=asc 
On the server side, you would then parse the sort parameter from the query string and use it to modify the database query accordingly. For example, in a SQL database, you might use the ORDER BY clause to sort the results.

SELECT*FROM users ORDERBY last_name ASC
It's also common to allow the client to specify the field by which to sort the results. For example, you might allow the client to sort by any field in the users table. To do this, you could add an additional parameter to the query string called sort_field, which takes the name of the field to sort by.

Here's an example of how the request might look with both the sort and sort_field parameters:

GET /users?sort=asc&sort_field=last_name 
On the server side, you would then parse both the sort and sort_field parameters and use them to modify the database query accordingly.

SELECT * FROM users ORDERBY :sort_field :sort 
It's important to note that when implementing sorting in a REST API, you should also consider the security implications. Specifically, you should be careful to prevent SQL injection attacks by properly sanitizing any user-provided input before using it in a database query.

Q34.How do you handle partial updates in a REST API?
n a REST API, you can use the HTTP PATCH method to perform a partial update on a resource. The PATCH request should include a list of instructions for modifying the resource, using a format such as JSON Patch (RFC 6902) or JSON Merge Patch (RFC 7396).

To handle a PATCH request, the server should apply the instructions contained in the request body to the current state of the resource, and then return a response indicating the result of the update. If the update is successful, the response should include the updated resource representation in the body and a 200 (OK) or 204 (No Content) status code. If the update fails, the response should include an error message and a 4xx or 5xx status code.

Here's an example of a PATCH request using JSON Patch:

PATCH /users/123 HTTP/1.1 Content-Type: application/json-patch+json 
[ { "op": "replace", "path": "/name", "value": "John Smith" }, 
{ "op": "add", "path": "/email", "value": "john@example.com" } ] 
In this example, the PATCH request includes two instructions: replacing the name field with "John Smith" and adding an email field with the value "john@example.com". The server would apply these instructions to the resource identified by the URL /users/123, and return a response indicating the result of the update.

It's important to note that the PATCH method is intended for partial updates, and should not be used to replace the entire resource representation. If you need to replace the resource, you should use the PUT method instead.

Q35.How do you handle concurrency in a REST API?
There are several ways to handle concurrency in a REST API:

Optimistic Concurrency Control: In this approach, the client includes a version number or timestamp in the request when updating a resource. The server checks the version number or timestamp of the resource before making the update. If the version number or timestamp has changed since the client last retrieved the resource, it means the resource has been updated by another client, and the server returns an error. The client can then retrieve the updated resource and try the update again.

Pessimistic Concurrency Control: In this approach, the server locks the resource when a client wants to update it. The lock remains in place until the update is complete, at which point the lock is released. This ensures that only one client can update the resource at a time.

ETag (Entity Tag): An ETag is a unique identifier for a specific version of a resource. The client can include an ETag in the If-Match header of an update request to ensure that the update is only made if the resource has not been modified since the client last retrieved it. If the resource has been modified, the server returns a 412 Precondition Failed error.

Last-Modified header: The server can include a Last-Modified header in its responses, indicating the time that the resource was last modified. The client can include a If-Modified-Since header in its update requests, and the server will only make the update if the resource has not been modified since the specified time. If the resource has been modified, the server returns a 304 Not Modified response, indicating that the client's cached copy of the resource is still up to date.

Merge Conflict Resolution: In this approach, the server does not prevent concurrent updates, but rather handles merge conflicts when they occur. When a client submits an update to a resource that has been modified by another client since the client last retrieved it, the server can either automatically resolve the conflict by applying a predetermined conflict resolution strategy, or it can return a 409 Conflict response, indicating that the client must manually resolve the conflict.

Q36.How do you handle transactions in a REST API?
Transactions allow multiple operations to be executed as a single atomic unit, either all of them or none at all. In a REST API, transactions can be implemented in several ways:

Single Resource Transactions: Some databases support transactions at the individual resource level, allowing updates to a single resource to be executed as a transaction. In this case, the API can simply expose the transaction functionality of the underlying database, allowing clients to start, commit, and rollback transactions on a single resource.

Batch Operations: The API can support batch operations, where multiple updates to different resources are bundled into a single request and treated as a single transaction. For example, the API could support a POST request to the /batch endpoint, with a payload containing multiple update operations to be executed as a single transaction.

Two-Phase Commit Protocol: In a distributed system, multiple resources may be involved in a single transaction. The Two-Phase Commit Protocol is a mechanism for coordinating such transactions across multiple resources, ensuring that either all of the updates are made or none of them are. The API can support this protocol by exposing endpoints for starting and committing transactions, as well as rolling them back in case of failure.

It's important to note that the REST architectural style does not dictate how transactions should be implemented in an API. The appropriate approach will depend on the requirements of the API and the capabilities of the underlying system.

Q37.How do you handle data validation in a REST API?
There are several ways to handle data validation in a REST API:

Input Validation: Input validation involves checking the input data to ensure that it is in the correct format and meets the requirements of the API. This can be done on the server side before the input is processed or on the client side before the request is sent to the server.

Output Validation: Output validation involves checking the output data to ensure that it is in the correct format and meets the requirements of the API. This can be done on the server side before the output is returned to the client or on the client side after the response is received from the server.

Request Validation: Request validation involves checking the entire request to ensure that it is in the correct format and meets the requirements of the API. This can include input validation, output validation, and other checks such as authentication and authorization.

There are several approaches to implementing data validation in a REST API:

Validating on the Server Side: Data validation can be implemented on the server side by adding checks to the API logic that verify that the input data is in the correct format and meets the requirements of the API. This can be done using built-in validation functions or by writing custom validation code.

Validating on the Client Side: Data validation can be implemented on the client side by adding checks to the client code that verify that the input data is in the correct format and meets the requirements of the API before the request is sent to the server. This can be done using built-in validation functions or by writing custom validation code.

Using a Third-Party Library: There are several third-party libraries available that can be used to perform data validation in a REST API. These libraries often provide a range of validation functions and a user-friendly interface for defining validation rules.

Regardless of the approach taken, it's important to ensure that data validation is performed consistently and thoroughly to protect the API and its users from invalid input or output data.

Q38.How do you handle data formatting in a REST API?
In a REST API, data formatting is typically handled through the use of various media types, also known as MIME types. When a client makes a request to a REST API, it can specify which media type it expects to receive in the response by setting the Accept header in the request. The server can then use this information to determine how to format the data in the response before sending it back to the client.

For example, if a client makes a request to a REST API and sets the Accept header to application/json, the server will format the response data as a JSON object and include the appropriate Content-Type header in the response to indicate that the data is in JSON format. Similarly, if a client sets the Accept header to application/xml, the server will format the response data as an XML document and include the appropriate Content-Type header in the response.

The media type of the request data can also be specified using the Content-Type header. When a client sends a request to a REST API with a payload, such as when creating or updating a resource, it can set the Content-Type header to indicate the format of the request data. The server can then use this information to parse and process the request data appropriately.

It's important to note that the media types used in a REST API are not limited to JSON and XML. There are many other media types that can be used, such as application/octet-stream for binary data, text/plain for plain text, and application/x-www-form-urlencoded for form data. The media type used will depend on the requirements of the API and the needs of the client.

Q39. How do you explain REST API in an interview?
When appearing for REST API interview questions, it's crucial to convey its fundamental concept as a Representational State Transfer. REST is an architectural style that employs standard HTTP methods for communication, emphasizing stateless interactions and resource-based URLs. 
A concise definition would be to describe REST as a set of principles for designing networked applications, emphasizing simplicity, scalability, and uniformity. Elaborate on its key features like statelessness and the use of HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE). This comprehensive overview showcases a grasp of essential REST API concepts for REST API interview questions. 

Q40. What are the 3 components of a RESTful API? What are the 4 most common REST API operations?
There are three pivotal components to understanding RESTful APIs. 

First is the Resource, representing entities like data or services. 
The succeeding factor in this process is the URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), playing the role of an exclusive marker for each resource. 
Subsequently, the third element entails the HTTP Methods, outlining the action to be carried out on the resource (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).
Moving to operations, four fundamental REST API actions stand out. GET retrieves resource data, POST creates new resources, PUT updates existing ones, and DELETE removes resources. 
Q41. What are the 3 principles for a RESTful API? Why do we use REST API?
RESTful APIs adhere to three key principles: 
Statelessness, where each request from a client contains all the information the server needs to fulfill it; Representation, indicating that resources are represented in a standardized format (e.g., JSON); and Uniform Interface, ensuring a consistent and standardized way to interact with resources. These principles foster scalability, simplicity, and reliability. 
The rationale behind using REST APIs lies in their ability to create scalable and maintainable systems by providing a straightforward and consistent approach to communication between different software applications. RESTful APIs have become the bedrock for web services due to their efficiency and ease of implementation.

Q42. What are the 4 most common REST API operations?
The four fundamental REST API operations, often referred to as CRUD operations, are as follows: 

Create (POST): This operation is used to add a new resource to the server. 
Read (GET): Employed to retrieve information from the server, the GET operation is crucial for accessing resources. 
Adjustment (PUT/PATCH): PUT is harnessed to modify an entire resource, while PATCH is employed to update segments of the resource selectively. 
Elimination (DELETE): True to its name, DELETE is deployed to eradicate a resource from the server. 
